

------------------------------ Start of body part 1

  Forgotten Realms Notebook #4

  New Magic Items



  From: Simon McIntosh-Smith <Simon.N.Smith@CM.CF.AC.UK>

  Shield of Durr

  This is a metallic shield, elliptoid in shape, 3 feet high and 2
  feet across. It is a dull gray, with a smaller ellipse of another
  material at the centre, 1 foot high and 6 inches across. It is this
  hub that gives the shield its power.

  The hub is highly magnetic, and it causes any object that comes into
  contact with the shield to become stuck fast. What happens depends on
  the object concerned and the situation:

  Weapons in battle: if a strike against the wielder is UNsuccessful,
  then roll a d6 to determine whether the striking weapon hit the shield.
  1 indicates the weapon was fended off by the shield, 2-6 means the
  wielder must have dodged or parried. On a roll of 1 the attackers
  weapon sticks fast to the shield. The attacker must make a successful
  bend bars/lift gates check to be able to dislodge his weapon, otherwise
  he is disarmed, obviously having to make a morale check to see if he
  runs away having lost his weapon. The weaponless attacker may elect
  to keep trying to retrieve the weapon, in which case his AC is modified
  accordingly (no bonus from dex, shield etc) as he is an open target
  to the shield wielder.

  Notes:

  1. The shield has no bonuses, ie it is a +0 shield. The shields advantage
  is being able to disarm your opponent.
  2. All metallic weapons are affected, enchanted weapons do not get any
  bonus over none-magical weapons.
  3. Conversely, non-metallic weapons like clubs and so on are NOT
  affected by the shield.
  4. At the DMs discretion, large weapons that become stuck to the shield
  may penalise the wielder's AC, due to the awkwardness of having
  the weapon stuck to your shield! I suggest reducing the dex contribution
  to the shield wielder's AC by 1 for each large weapon stuck to the shield.



  Metallic objects other than weapons: the shield will stick to all metallic
  objects, including armour, coins etc. Contact must be made in order for
  the item to become stuck to the shield. This will result in strength
  checks being made by the wielder of the shield if the shield becomes
  stuck to, for instance a worn suit of plate mail. If the shield owner fails
  his strength check he looses grip on the shield and it remains stuck to
  the metallic object.

  The source of the magnetism is magical, so a successful "dispel magic"
  will cause the magnetism to fail for 1d4 rounds. The full magnetism
  returns after this period.

  Does the shield attract non-ferrous metals?

  The confusion has arisen because I used the word "magnetic" to describe
  the shield's properties. Let me clarify:

  1. ALL metals will stick to the shield, unlike magnetism.

  "Magnetic" was just a way of trying to describe the property.
  Antoman was trying to recreate the ability of the adherer, and
  the furthest he got was creating a material that would stick to
  all metals, including gold, copper, aluminium etc.

  2. The attraction is only activated on contact, unlike magnetism.

  Again there is no area of effect for the shield. Metals that
  come into contact with it will be held fast, "as if by a stong
  magnetic attraction".

  3. Neither the shield itself, not the hub of Durr that gives it it's
  properties feels sticky to the touch.

  The shield is just steel, while
  the hub may feel more like plastic, not quite as hard as metal, although
  it  would look iron-like due to it's red appearence.


  History

  Antoman Durr was an alchemist and mage working in his cave on the
  the High Moor, not far from the edge of Misty Forest, a large wood but
  three days trek South-East from Waterdeep. He had lead a successful life,
  having been both a freelance adventurer and a battle mage in his time.
  Retiring on the proceedings of his numerous campaigns, he spent a decade
  studying a creature that he had always found facinating - the adherer. He
  went on many expeditions to study these life forms, and eventually decided
  to attempt to recreate their ability. Many attempts were made, but
  these involved sticky secretions that eventually wore off. Deciding
  on magically generating a form of magnetism that would only work on
  contact, Antoman eventually created an enchanted alloy of adamantite and
  iron that he called "Durr". Durr was even more successful than Antoman
  had hoped since it would propogate it's adherence through other metals.
  This meant a metal item did not have to be made entirely of durr, it could
  just have a plate of durr on it and the whole item would exhibit the
  "sticky" properties.

  In 1263 DR, the year of the Tressym, the merchants of Waterdeep were busy
  trying to rebuild the city's reputation after the guild wars of two years
  previous.  Many fetes, faires, parties and balls were organised throughout
  the year. Antoman presented his discovery in the form of a shield at an
  exhibition of new spells and magical items, where the judges and the
  audience were impressed by Antoman's achievements.

  Having won third prize for his ingenious discovery, he was promptly
  assassinated on his way home on the orders of one of the exhibition
  organisers who wanted the shield for himself. The organiser was killed in
  an accident several weeks later, when a money purse belonging to a
  sergeant of the guards became snagged on the shield. The sergeant was
  slightly drunk and accussed the merchant of trying to rob him. Before the
  merchant could explain the sergeant promptly ran him through, then
  reclaimed his purse, after a bit of a struggle with the shield.




  From: Simon McIntosh-Smith <Simon.N.Smith@CM.CF.AC.UK>


  Dagger of Grimm

  A normal looking dagger, decorated only by a symbol of an open hand
  on the handle. The weapon is enchanted to +1, but radiates more magic
  than this might warrant. The reason for the surprisingly large
  dweomer becomes apparent when the wielder first tries to put the
  dagger down. As the wielder's hand opens the dagger vanishes, and
  a tattoo of a dagger appears on the palm of the wielder. The tattoo
  will remain until the command word is spoken, upon which the dagger
  will instantly re-appear in the wielder's hand, the tattoo gone.
  While the dagger is in tattoo form it will not radiate any noticeable
  dweomer.

  Obviously the advantage of this blade is that it is extremely well
  concealed against most forms of detection. Only very specific
  searching with "detect magic" or such like will arouse even the
  slightest suspicion.

  A word of warning. If the wielder did not read the command word
  on the handle of the dagger before trying to put it down (and
  it becoming the tattoo) for the first time, he will be unable to
  remove the tattoo, nor get the dagger to reappear. The command
  word is not visible in the tattoo, which is an exact likeness
  of the dagger.

  Here are a few suggestions for command words:

  o deploy
  o manifest
  o conspicuous
  o open hand
  o perforate
  o scratch

  etc. etc.


  History

  Formed in the Forgotten Realms by a mage who was working for an
  assassin. The assassin named Grimm was being paid extremely well
  to kill a member of a ruling noble family in Waterdeep. The only
  conditions of the contract was that "death must be by a cold steel
  edge". The target had been warned of the attempt on his life, and
  was being guarded day and night. All visitors were strip searched
  and scanned magically to ensure no harm could come to the nobleman.
  And so Grimm devised his weapon, one that could be smuggled in
  and out with ease.  Grimm paid well for the dagger, and gained
  access to his prey under the ruse that he could inform the lord
  of the identity of his intended assailant. The ruse worked, and
  as the lord welcomed Grimm to his study and bade him to tell his
  story quickly, Grimm spoke his command word and claimed his blade.
  The Lord's two guards were caught completely off guard and Grimm
  plunged the dagger into the Lord's heart, spitting these words into
  the dying man's face,

  "Your pursuer is ME!"

  Grimm fled the building before the alarm was raised, returning
  his dagger to its tattoo form. The guards were looking for a
  man carrying a bloodied knife, but none was found.

  Grimm escaped Waterdeep and headed for his safe house in the upper
  levels of the dungeons nearby, known as Undermountain. The nobleman's
  family immediately announced a reward for information leading to
  the capture and execution of the assassin. The mage who had manufactured
  the blade came forward, motivated by greed, and told a false story
  about being approached by a man matching the description of the
  assassin, asking for magical assistance for the attack on the Lord.
  However, the mage was known for his previous crimes, and he was
  imprisoned. But he had already given the High Justice the information
  they needed to track down the assassin. They descended on Grimm's lair
  in Waterdeep, from which he nearly escaped but was finally slain by
  the youngest son of the dead lord. As Grimm's last breath was gasped,
  a dagger shimmered into existance in the dying man's hand, then fell
  from his grasp, its only decoration a small symbol of an open hand...


  From: ervin@moe.coe.uga.edu (Harold Ervin)

  Dreamweaver Blade

  It's a light longsword with an elven  grip and handle.  The blade is made
  of pure silver and bathed in liquid moonlight at its creation.  There are
  a pair of intertwined roses racing up either side of the blade.  The hilt
  is a normal brass ball filled with sand.
  The guard is styled with the thorns of the roses and tapers.

  Dreamweaver was crafted by Aero, High Elven Enchanter about 250 yrs ago.
  It is a +1 blade when used by anyone, but this rises to +3 if used by
  either an elf OR an enchanter, again rising to +5 if used by
  an elven enchanter.

  Powers:

  Sleep 1x/d, Forget at the swords prerogative, Shadow Walk 1x/wk, Dream
  1x/wk, Invisible Stalker upon wielders death.

  She rarely speaks but when she does it is in a soft feminine whisper.
  She is never angered and is neutrally aligned.  Dreamweaver will never
  reveal her invisible stalker or forget powers.

  Upon the death of the wielder, w/i a few rounds, the invisible stalker
  will come to take the corpse and all it's possessions to the final resting
  place of all High Elves, whereever that may be in your campaign.




  From: The Harlequin <MDIG8154@URIACC.URI.EDU>


  Cloak of Thespis

  Created by an evil mage with a flair for the dramatic, this cloak is
  enchanted to swirl and flare at the slightest provocation.  At times it
  seems to be several yards long, but due to it's magics will never tangle
  the wearer's arms or legs.  It has only one purely defensive magic, a
  continous feather fall spell [which allows the cloak to spread like wings
  in order to make an unforgettable entrance/exit], but this is
  counterbalanced by the -1 to armor class, as the wearer attracts the
  attention of all opponents.


  Spellbinder

  This 3-foot long sceptre was created by an ancient king who despised
  magic, so by forcing his court wizard to cast "Enchant an Item" backwards,
  as well as several other arcane acts, he caused the rod to be empowered.
  The Rod absorbs most magics, save for those which create physical objects,
  such as wall of stone, and enchantment/charm spells which affect the mind
  directly.  This alone makes it a highly powerful item, however the Rod
  also causes magical items to cease to function [1 day for self renewing mag
  ics, permanently for rechargeable ones (until recharged)], and when a
  successful hit roll is made, causes a spellcaster to lose all memorized
  spells.  Note however, that the user cannot wield and other magics, either
  by spell or item.


  The Eye of Truth

  The Eye of Truth appears to be a large amulet worn at the throat of
  the user.  In general it acts as a gem of true seeing, allowing the
  detection of lies and illusions at will.  In fact the amulet works
  automatically, notifying
  the user when a lie or illusion is present.
  It also grants immunity to spells which can be considered deception,
  such as charm person or mirror image.One would think it overpowerful,
  unless one realizes that the wearer is forced to be truthful at all
  times.  This means no lying, no illusions, no deception of any kind.
  Merely considering it will cause 1-4 hp loss due to strangulation, and
  actually performing the act causes an automatic 10 hp loss.


  The Sword of Omens

  +3 to hit, warns wielder of danger to self or comrades.  Clairvoyance
  at will, either to reveal danger, or to see something else.  Will return
  to hand of the wielder upon speaking the proper phrase.  Upon speaking
  another phrase, releases an image of a stylized cat's head, which dispels
  all magic directed at wielder, and alerting the rest of the party,
  penetrating all barriers between it and the sky.  The sword also can
  release a bolt of energy, doing 4d4 damage; fly as per the spell, dragging
  the user along; Cast a globe of invulnerability, at the price of
  suppressing all other functions; and act as a portal to a pocket
  dimension. At no time can the sword be used by beings of evil alignment,
  and is the property of a being who may be related to the Master Cat.  If
  the sword is found, odds are he's looking for it, and since he is capable
  of operating the sword without body contact, I'd give it to him.



  From: Jason <S973506%UMSLVMA.BITNET@asu.edu>


  SPELL BOOKS
  New Rules
  The Following is adapted with little variation from Best of Dragon Volume
  III.  I hope
  this will keep some magic users in-line, and modest.

  I.  Spell books
  A.  Types
  i.  Standard--2 kinds
  a.  Contains up to 36 cantrips, 24 level spells under 4th level, and 16
  under 7th.
  b.  Contains 8 spells of 7th, 8th, and 9th level spells
  ii.  Travelling spell books contain at most 1/4 of the spells that a
  standard book has
  B.  Cost
  i.  Standard
  a.  1000 gp for materials, plus 100 gp per spell level in book
  1.  The first book or two is provided to the mage free
  2.  Entering a first level spell=100 gp, 2nd level=200 gp, ect.

  ii.  Travelling
  a.  500 gp for materials, not travelling spell books are provided.
  Spell entry costs the same as standard books.
  b.  Can be obtained by treasure discovery, too
  C.  Physical Properties
  i.  Standard--16"x12"x6"
  a.  weight = 150 gp
  b.  encumberanc = 450 gp
  c.  one will fit in empty backpack or large sack
  ii.  Travelling--12"x6"x1" or 9"x9"1"
  a.  weight = 30 gp
  b.  encumberance = 60 gp
  c.  5 will fit in an empty backpack, 10 in an empty large sack
  D.  Value
  i.  Standard
  a.  XP value = 1000 per highest level contained in book
  b.  GP value = 200 gp per highest spell level in book
  ii.  Travelling
  a.  XP value = 500 per....
  b.  GP value = 1000 per....
  iii.  General Information
  a.  Spell books must either be sold immediately or else XP value
  is
  taken.  Thus, a spell book cannot be kept whil certain spells transcribed,
  then sold.  If it is ever sold, the XP value x2
  is
  lost from the character's xp.
  E.  Casting directly from a book
  i.  The caster must know the spell
  ii.  The spell is destroyed, there is a 1% chance that the surrounding
  spells will also be destroyed.
  iii.  Read magic allows the M-U to read other M-U's spell books
  a.  It takes 2-8 hours per spell level to learn. After studying
  the
  spell, the spell is usable by the M-U regardless of level.
  From: Sylvain_Robert@UQTR.UQuebec.CA
  Nobles of Waterdeep

  In FR1, p.15, under Government:"Waterdeep is presently governed by sisteen
  Lords of waterdeep..." (Year of the Prince, 1357 DR).

  I have added some informations and corrections under the names of the Lords
  proposed by Eric Boyd



  Name                         Class                  Profession
                             ( Level )
  ==================================================================
  Piergon Paladinson               paladin                     open lord
   Piergeiron "the Paladinson"     (14+ in FR1, 16 in FR7)
  Khelben Arunsun                  mage                        archmage
                                   (26)
  Larissa Neathal                  fighter                     courtesan
                                   (4)
  Mirt the Moneylender             fighter/thief               moneylender
                                   (9/7 in FR7, p86)
  Durnan                           fighter        proprietor of the Yawning
                                                  Portal
                                   (12 in FR1 and FR7)
                                   (18 in Ruins of Undermountain)
  Texter the Paladin               paladin                        ______
                                   (17)
  Caladorn Cassalanter             fighter             nobleman and horseman
                                   (8+)                        Cavalier
  Brian the Swordmaster            _____                       weaponsmith
                                   (12)
  Kitten                           fighter                     mercenary
   Nymara Scheiron                 thief (7 in FR1 and FR7)
  Sammereza Salphontis             _____                  traveling merchant
                                   (left to DM, FR1 p.16)


  There is a misunderstanding here. Larissa Neathal is indeed a fighter and a
   courtesan. On the other hand, Laeral
  (the sixth sister) is indeed a powerful  mage (24th level in FR5), and is
  also the lady of Khelben. The two are
  unrelated.



  From: "Eric L. Boyd" <boyd@eecs.umich.edu>

  Cormyrian War Wizard
  (Wizard Kit)


  Description: The War Wizard is a wizard from Cormyr, in the For-
  gotten Realms setting, although this kit can easily be modified
  to suit almost any small medieval kingdom. All wizards residing
  in Cormyr for longer than six months of fourth or greater level
  are required to become War Wizards.

          War Wizards are not required to adopt the Cormyrian War
  Wizard kit, and War Wizards are allowed to take other kits if
  they so chose, or none at all. This kit is primarily intended
  for young mages and specialists who are trained since the be-
  ginning of their apprenticeship to serve in the Cormyr's corps
  of War Wizards. In the rest of this description, the appellation
  'War Wizard' refers to mages who have specifically taken the
  Cormyrian War Wizard kit.

          War Wizards are skilled in both military strategy and tac-
  tics. They are taught elementary self-defense and methods of
  employing their spells to most effectively aid small and medi-
  um-sized contingents of troops. In addition, most are taught
  how to ride a horse, and how to study spells under less than
  ideal conditions.


          To adopt the War Wizard kit, a sorcerer must demonstrate
  both strength and stamina to prepare themselves for the rigors
  of war and life on the campaign trail. A minimum Strength of 12
  and Constitution of 13 are required to adopt the War Wizard kit.

          Abandoning this kit is not allowed while the War Wizard
  continues to reside in Cormyr and it involves withdrawing from
  the War Wizard organization. Permission must by granted by the
  King of Cormyr to withdraw from the organization (and hence from
  this kit), and the wizard is then exiled from Cormyr. Deserters
  will have a bounty placed upon their head. If a wizard does
  abandon this kit, all benefits and hindrances are immediately
  lost, and all former colleagues will do their best to avoid (or
  capture) the War Wizard depending upon the circumstances of the

Due to its size, this text item will be continued in the next text item.

------------------------------ Start of body part 2

  withdrawal.

          A War Wizard's initial spells should be chosen to reflect
  the military nature of his or her occupation, thus offensive
  and area of effect defensive spells should be emphasized.

  Preferred Schools: The preferred schools of the War Wizard are
  illusion, alteration, and invocation/evocation. However, the
  corps of War Wizards includes a few specialists in almost all
  schools, as each specialist adds to the magical potency of
  Cormyr's army.

  Barred Schools: War Wizards are barred from the school of nec-
  romancy, due to the repugnant nature of this discipline to the
  goodly rulers of Cormyr, and to the debilitating effect having
  a necromancer in the ranks would do to morale.

  Role: The War Wizard is a member of an elite corps of mages and
  specialists who augment the more conventional forces of the
  Cormyrian army. In battle their role includes augmenting the
  conventional military forces, neutralizing enemy wizards, pro-
  viding reconnaissance information, and neutralizing monsters
  and magical beasts under the control of the enemy.


          War Wizards are expected to stay active in their studies,
  serve in peacetime garrisons, and mobilize at the first hint of
  war. In addition, the corps is expected to train itself, and
  stay current on newly invented or discovered magics.

  Secondary Skills: No particular Secondary Skill is recommended
  or required. A War Wizard receives his Secondary Skill either
  by choosing or rolling randomly, whatever is normal for the cam-
  paign.

  Weapon Proficiencies:
                            Required: short sword

  Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: (Warrior) Endurance, Riding
  (Land-based), Spellcraft. Recommended: (General) Swimming;
  (Wizard) Engineering, Ancient (Military) History, Herbalism,
  Reading / Writing; (Warrior, takes 1 slot only) Running, (War-
  rior takes 2 slots only) Blindfighting; (Rogue, takes 1 slot
  only) Tumbling.

  Equipment: The War Wizard may buy any equipment he chooses,
  keeping whatever money he might not use.

  Special Benefits: The War Wizard receives a bonus Weapon Pro-
  ficiency, in addition to his normal starting total, at no cost.
  This bonus Weapon Proficiency must be used for the short sword.
  The War Wizard is specially trained for defense, and thus im-
  proves his armor class by two places when specifically defend-
  ing with the short sword, assuming the War Wizard takes no other
  action that round. If the optional rules from either the DMG or
  the CFH are used, this bonus is in addition to any parrying
  bonus, but only applies in hand-to-hand combat. As a conse-
  quence of this defensive concentration, when using a short
  sword, the War Wizard suffers a -2 penalty to his or her attack
  rolls.


          Due to specialized concentration, a war wizard is trained
  to memorize spells faster, and under adverse conditions. A War
  Wizard needs only four hours of reasonably restful sleep (here
  a "reasonably restful sleep" is left up to the DM's discretion)
  to memorize spells at the normal rate. If a full night of rest-
  ful sleep is had, the War Wizard needs only five minutes per
  spell level to memorize spells. If the sleep is only "reasonably
  restful", as described above, and the wizard attempts to memo-
  rize spells at the accelerated rate mentioned above, there is
  a chance the wizard will mess up, and have to start over at the
  slower rate of memorization for any particular spell. This
  chance is equal to 100% - (% chance to know spells given by
  intelligence).

          In addition, higher level War Wizards often trade spells
  of equivalent level with their fellow War Wizards, at no extra
  charge. Higher level War Wizards are expected to tutor at least
  one other War Wizard of lesser power at least once per year,
  free of charge. The War Wizard corps act as a loosely knit acad-
  emy spread throughout Cormyr to which all members contribute
  and benefit.

  Special Hindrances: It is a crime for War Wizards to trade
  spells with or train any nonmember mage without official per-
  mission from Vanderghast (the head of the War Wizards) himself.
  War Wizards are expected to serve garrison duty two months each
  year, and to assemble in the nearest Cormyrian city once every
  three months for a week of training and seminars. Special ex-
  emptions can be had from the seminars, but not from the garrison
  duty except under extreme circumstances. In addition, War Wiz-
  ards are expected to immediately notify their superiors if they
  intend any extended leave of absence from the country and they
  must be reachable at all times while residing in Cormyr.


  Freestave (Wizard Kit)

  Description: A freestave is a mercenary wizard who wanders the
  Realms much like the standard mercenary fighter, selling his
  magical talents to the highest bidder. Many evil mages in the
  employ of the Zhentarim are freestaves who have found an em-
  ployer interested only in results and not methods.

          A freestave must be able to stand the demands of travel,
  and hence a minimum Constitution of 9 and Strength of 9 are
  required in addition to a minimum Intelligence of 9.

  Preferred Schools: The preferred schools of freestaves are in-
  vocation/evocation and abjuration, although almost any type of
  specialist will find his talents in demand for appropriate
  lines of work.

  Barred Schools: Freestaves are not barred from any school, al-
  though necromancers rarely find consistent employment as mer-
  cenaries or have the temperament for such work.

  Role: Freestaves serve as the wizardly equivalent of mercenary
  warriors. They contract themselves out to various employers for
  a variety of tasks. Many evokers serve in mercenary armies pro-
  viding magical support. Many diviners serve army commanders di-
  rectly providing valuable information. Conjurers are often used
  to "soften up" an area with numerous monster attacks before an
  invasion. Enchanters make excellent interrogators and spies.
  Illusionists supplement guerrilla campaigns with great effec-
  tiveness. Abjurers are often employed to protect high ranking
  commanders and to cancel magic employed by opponents. Transmut-
  ers and generalist mages provide a large arsenal of magic for
  general purposes.

  Secondary Skills: No particular Secondary Skill is recommended
  or required. A freestave receives his Secondary Skill either by
  choosing or rolling randomly, whatever is normal for the cam-
  paign.


  Weapon Proficiencies: As mage.

  Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: (Warrior) Endurance, Riding
  (Land-based), Spellcraft. Recommended: (Wizard) Engineering,
  Ancient (Military) History, Reading/Writing; (Warrior, takes 1
  slot only) Running, (Warrior takes 2 slots only) Blindfighting;
  (Rogue, takes 1 slot only) Tumbling.

  Equipment: The freestave may buy any equipment he chooses,
  keeping whatever money he might not use. A freestave may be
  loaned powerful items such as magical wands by his employer for
  the duration of employment.

  Special Benefits: A freestave can often demand access to new
  spells or training as payment from potential employers in ex-
  change for service. Also freestaves are traditionally paid far
  better than common mercenary troops. Payment of 50 gold pieces
  a day for a mid-level freestave is not uncommon.

  Special Hindrances: A freestave is rarely trusted by his own
  employer or his fellow troops. Enemy armies often have a corps
  of assassins who are trained to specifically disable and/or
  kill enemy wizards. Mercenaries and other soldiers will rarely
  take a wizard prisoner, immediate execution is the standard op-
  erating procedure. Many kingdoms ban known freestaves from
  their borders. The penalty for discovery is usually immediate
  imprisonment or death.

  From: "Eric L. Boyd" <boyd@eecs.umich.edu>

  Additional Spellfire Rules

  Ed Greenwood updated the information on Spellfire in a Polyhedron column
  about a year ago. It was part of an Everwinking Eye column on Errata.



  The FR7 spellfire text shouldn't be interpreted as forcing a
  spellfire-wielding character to change class. Rather, in any given
  adventure, experience is gained in the character's class only if no
  spellfire powers are used. If any spellfire is wielded, all experience
  points gained in the adventure go instead to the character's spellfire
  level (which uses the wizard XP table), and individual experience awards
  for the character's primary class (see page 48 of the 2nd Edition Dungeon
  Masters Guide) are lost. At the first level of spellfire ability (not
  primary character class level), absorption of magical energy (from spells
  of all sorts, breath weapons, gaze attacks, magic item discharges, and just
  about anything else) is involuntary: the character drains any magic with
  which he comes into contact, including useful magic and healing spells
  (only rest or non-magical healing can restore lost hit points to the
  character). Absorption is strictly voluntary at the second level of
  spellfire ability and above.

  A character who exceeds his absorption limit (which is his Constitution
  score x10) involuntarily releases one level of energy about every six
  seconds (10 times per round), suffering 1d6 hp of damage each time, until
  the moment his total energy falls back into the 310xConstitution2 category
  (see FR7, page 50).


  At 1st level, this involuntary release is uncontrolled, and can harm
  friends and valued things nearby (within five feet).

  At 2nd level and above, the agonized spellfire-wielder can urge the release
  in one general direction, provided the character is free to act. There is
  intense burning pain, such as that suffered by Shandril when destroying
  Rauglothgor's lair. The wielder must save vs. paralyzation at -2. If this
  save fails, a spellfire wielder of any level 3leaks2 energy as a 1st level
  spellfire wielder until the total falls back to a controllable number. If
  the save succeeds, the wielder can use the release as an attack, and can
  opt to release all or any part of the excess energy in a single burst;
  however, each excess level of energy still inflicts 1d6 points of damage on
  the spellfire wielder no matter how it is released.

  A 2nd level wielder attacking with an involuntary, but controlled, energy
  release suffers a -3 "to hit" penalty. If there are multiple bolts released
  during the round, the wielder can attack multiple targets, roll for each
  target separately.

  At 3rd level, the attack roll is made at a -1 penalty.

  At 4th level, the attack roll is normal.

  At 5th level and above, the attack is made at +1. It increases by +1 per
  spellfire-level thereafter.

  Overloading a spellfire wielder invites a deadly counterattack. However,
  spellfire wielders seldom willingly overload themselves, save in very
  emotional, exceptional circumstances (such as avenging the death of a loved
  one), as the pain and risk are simply too great.

  All spellfire attacks have line-of-sight range
            the wielder can hit anything he can see
            and does not suffer penalties for range,
            concealment, or cover.


  In Realms campaigns, only the DM can decide if a character is going to
  manifest spellfire ability (which may occur at any time, triggered by
  contact with magic or a magically-powered or using being). This ability is
  hereditary, but also crops up at random, at the will of the gods. It is a
  form of "wild magic" that usually foretells great upheavals. In Shandril's
  case, the upheaval was The Time of Troubles.

  Spellfire is very rare; while it is not true that only one
  spellfire-wielder can exist in Faerun at a time, known (revealed) spellfire
  talents attract a lot of unwanted attention (as Shandril unwittingly did)
  and are very few and far between. DMs should never add a PC spellfire
  wielder to a campaign without a lot of forethought; its presence can too
  easily be a "campaign wrecker" in the hands of skilled (or merely
  malicious) players. On the other hand, when a lower beginning-level
  character joins a mid- to high-level party, giving the newcomer spellfire
  can be a good way to prevent the fledgling PC from being ignored, ordered
  about, or forced to run a gauntlet of too-dangerous challenges.



  New Spells

  From: rsm58307@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (Ron)

  Feldegast's Spells

  Feldegast, aka Feldegast the Great, aka Isildur the Merchant,
  is not unlike most wizards.  He does wear robes
  and dons a pointy hat. He is level 6.

  Here are a few of his spells. If they seem to powerful,
  that's probably because they are.


  Feldegast's Elemental Burst (evocation)
  Level: 1   cast time: 1 seg         duration: 0
     area effect: 5y sphere    saving throw: none

  this spell does (lvl)d4 dmg to anyone but the caster, outward from
  the caster.


  Feldegast's  Shield (abjuration)
  Level: 2   cast time: 0             duration: lvl r
     area effect: caster       saving throw: n/a

  this spell prevents the caster's spells from affecting the caster,
  resulting in illusionary or minimal (burnt eyebrows) harm; it can
  likewise protect the caster from inferior foes (if hd < lvl);
  expending (Level)  grants a save if none or +4 if there was a
  save.

  Feldegast's Ego Submergence (abjuration)
  Level: 2   cast time: 1t            duration: 1 day
     area effect: caster       saving throw: n/a

  this spell grants the caster non-detection by scrying, detect spells
  and mind reading divinations, as well as granting a +4 save vs charms.
  however, the spell ends abruptly if the caster scrys, mind reads or
  charms. this spell does not alert the caster to scrying, and may
  be overpowered by a spell of greater Level.



  Feldegast's Elemental Fury (evocation)
  Level: 2   cast time: 2+            rng: (6+lvl)*10 yards
     area effect: varies       saving throw: none

  the caster concentrates heavily, creating a sphere in their hand
  within which some kind of element that they are familiar with
  beats furiously. the spell strikes like magic missile, doing
  (lvl+2)d4 dmg if at one target or it can be separated into (lvl)
  shards each doing (d4) damage, ariving every second.

  Feldegast's Lightstream (alt or ench)
  Level: 3   cast time: 1             rng: 10*lvl y
     area effect: 50yard sphere   saving throw: varies

  the caster controls light as an alteration or mind enchantment
  as desired until another spell is cast. then the light stream
  can't be changed (thus lightstream can duplicate continual
  light but not update a disguise).

  Feldegast's Alter Appearance (alt)
  Level: 3   cast time: 1 day         duration: permanent
     area effect: caster       saving throw: none

  this spell alters the caster's appearance, but the change is
  permanent alteration, not illusionary; dispel magic will not change
  the appearance back;

  Feldegast's Wayfinder Portal (conj)
  Level: 3     cast time: 1 week      duration: 1 round


  conjures a smooth ring, visible to the caster, which begins to
  crystallize at a rate according to the information used to focus it;
  the wayfinder portal seeks a target (place/thing/person) identified
  by (image, location, scent, name, magic pattern); once found, if
  found, it can be walked through, however the point of egress is a
  spot unwatched, relatively safe to the caster (thus the wizard might
  appear a day's walk away from the target); it will not bring the
  caster into a private building/church which the caster has not been
  in before or been invited to enter into; transporting others
  exhausts the rest of the caster's . [in the campaign world
  fast teleport spells are not allowed, as we have found them to
  be unfair]


  Feldegast's Safe Portal (conj)
  Level: 3   cast time: 1     rng: 10 yards
     duration: 4*lvl turns

  this spell conjures a portal to an extra dimensiona;l space, but with an
  alteration upon the opening, bending light so the other side can appear
  as desired; thus it can fool people into thinking it is a wayfinder
  portal; the portal itself acts like a ropetrick without a rope [in
  the campaign world ropetrick is a 3rd level spell because of it is
  exceedingly powerful]



  From: "nathan sugioka" <nsugioka@cs.indiana.edu>



  Fire Dart
  School: Invocation/evocation (elem. fire)
  Level: 2
  Components: V,S
  Range: 10 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 2
  Duration: Instantaneous
  Area of effect: Special
  Saving throw: None

  Similar to Magic Missile, this spell produces one missile per 2 caster
  levels, rounded up, with a maximum of 5.  The difference is that these
  missiles are made of flame; thus, they CAN be directed against non-living
  targets, and also set any flammable materials they hit on fire.

  Lava Bolt
  School: Conjuration/summoning (elem. fire & earth)
  Level: 3
  Components: V,S,M
  Range: 10 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 3
  Duration: Instantaneous (see below)
  Area of effect: 1 creature or object
  Saving throw: None

  This spell conjures a bolt of molten lava which the caster throws as if he
  were a fighter of equal level (DEX bonuses apply).  If it hits a creature,
  it takes 3d6 impact damage plus 3d6 fire damage; unless the lava is
  somehow removed, the target will take another 3d6 each round, for 1 round
  for each 3 levels beyond 5th of the caster (1 extra round at 8th, 2 extra
  at
  11th...).
  The material component is a piece (at least 2 ounces) of pumice, volcanic
  glass, or other lava-based rock.

  Lava Wave
  School: Conjuration/summoning (elem. fire)
  Level: 4
  Components: V,S,M
  Range: 10 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 4
  Duration: Instantaneous (see below)
  Area of effect: 20 by 40 rectangle OR 30 by 30 square
  Saving throw: Special

  This spell is similar to Lava Wave except that it conjures a wave of
  molten lava over the given area.  All creatures within take 1d6/2 levels
  of the caster (rounded up; max. 6); unless a successful save is made, this
  damage will continue, at the rate of 3d6 per round, for 1 round per 3
  levels of
  the
  caster beyond 4th.  The material component is 4 ounces of volcanic rock,
  and
  an open flame of any kind (the flame is not extinguished in the casting).


  Elemental Join
  School: Alteration, Enchantment/charm (elem. fire, earth, air, or water)
  Level: 5
  Components: V,S
  Range: 5 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 1 round
  Duration: 1 turn/level
  Area of effect: 1 elemental
  Saving throw: Special

  With this spell, the wizard physically joins her body with an elemental.
  A saving throw is allowed only if the elemental is not one the wizard has
  conjured.  Once the wizard's body has joined with the elemental, the
  wizard can use all the abilities of the elemental's body as her own,
  including Hit Dice, THACO, damage, movement and invulnerability to
  nonmagic weapons. However, as the wizard's body and any equipment on it
  are transformed into the appropriate element and joined with the
  elemental's body, this
  equipment
  cannot be used in any way while inside the elemental's body.  The only
  spells
  that can be cast are those not requiring material components (those
  components are stuck inside the elemental's body), and even then the
  elemental must be able to speak (I don't think most can).

  The wizard may end the spell at any time.  The wizard's body appears
  anywhere
  within 10 feet of the elemental.  If the elemental is one the wizard has
  conjured, she may dismiss it at the same time; if not, the elemental is
  likely to be furious, so the wise wizard will be cautious.  Note that both
  caster and elemental will be confused and disoriented (no action) for 1
  round

Due to its size, this text item will be continued in the next text item.

------------------------------ Start of body part 3

  after the separation.  The maximum duration in any case is 1 turn per
  level of the caster.

  There are several important things to note about this spell.  First, if
  the elemental's body is slain with the wizard inside, the wizard dies.
  Second, if the spellcaster is attempting to take over an elemental
  conjured by another wizard, the elemental gets the save of its conjuring
  wizard OR its own (whichever is better); in either case, there is a +2
  bonus
  (representing
  the prior claim of control by the conjurer).  Third, the new body takes
  some
  getting used to; the caster is at -2 to hit for the first 2 strikes she
  takes
  against an opponent.



  Matthew's Hellfire
  School: Invocation/evocation (elem. fire)
  Level: 5
  Components: V,S,M
  Range: 5 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 5
  Duration: Instantaneous
  Area of effect: 1 creature
  Saving throw: Special

  This spell causes white-hot flames to appear around an opponent's body,
  causing (1d6+1) points of damage per level of the caster.  A saving throw
  for half damage is allowed, at a -2 penalty.  The material component is
  a small ruby, of at least 100 gp value.

  Non-fire spells:

  Darksight
  School: Alteration
  Level: 2
  Components: V,S
  Range: Touch
  Casting time: 2
  Duration: 5 rounds/caster level
  Area of effect: 1 creature
  Saving throw: None

  This spell allows the creature touched to see clearly in any form of
  darkness, magical or not.  It does not allow detection of invisible, out
  of phase, ethereal or astral creatures, nor does it compensate for any
  blindness
  due to natural or magical causes.

  Somaticize
  School: Alteration
  Level: 2
  Components: V
  Range: 0
  Casting time: 1
  Duration: Special
  Area of effect: Caster
  Saving throw: None

  With this spell, the caster may cast another spell without somatic
  components.  Somaticize is cast; the round afterwards, the other spell
  must be cast, or all benefits are lost.  This spell has obvious uses for a
  bound or otherwise restricted wizard.



  From: v062p74v@ubvms.cc.buffalo.edu (Brian A Weibel)

  Quiz's Interposing Shield (Conjuration/Summoning)

  Level:  2
  Range:  Caster Only
  Components:  V,S,M
  Duration:  Special
  Casting Time:  3 rounds
  Area of Effect:  Caster Only
  Saving Throw:  None

  This spell can only be used in conjunction with an Armor spell;
  the Armor spell is cast first and is immediately followed by
  casting this spell.
  Quiz's Shield performs in much the same way as the Armor spell.
  It is an invisible barrier the size of a medium shield.  The
  barrier acts as a medium shield and lowers the casters AC by 1 in
  regards to attacks that it can impose itself upon.  The caster does
  not need to concentrate in order to use the Shield.
  The Shield adds one "hit point" to the amount of damage that
  the Armor can take before being dispelled.  When the Armor has been
  dispelled, the Shield vanishes also.
  The material component for the spell is a medium sized metal shield.  It
  is consumed in the casting.
  This magic was developed by Quiz, practitioner of the art of
  illusion.  "Rumor has it that I often found myself too encumbered
  in combat to use anything other than party members for my shields.
  This did not fare well with certain people, so I created this
  spell."




  Quiz's Speedy Sprint (Alteration)

  Level:  2
  Range:  Caster only
  Components:  V,S,M
  Duration:  Special
  Casting Time:  1 turn
  Area of Effect:  Caster only
  Saving Throw:  None

  This spell allows a caster to store a burst of energy in a
  crystal worth 50 gp, the material component of this spell.  This
  crystal is consumed only upon use of the spell.  The caster must
  keep it with him until the spell is activated.
  When activated, the caster can increase his movement rate by
  6" for up to 1 round per level.  This spell must be used upon
  starting movement or while moving.  Premature destruction of the
  crystal results in an uncontrollable burst of speed.  The caster
  must make a DEX check at -4 to avoid tripping.  Those who trip
  are assumed to have moved a random distance (DM's discretion) and
  then fallen.  They are then stunned for the rest of the round.
  Note that any caster can only have one crystal at any given time. This
  spell was created by Quiz, practicioner of the art of
  illusion.  "Being a short-legged gnome, I found it quite
  necessary to find a method to overcome my reduced running
  speed.  One who runs today fights another day!"


  Valdor's Vindicating Ladder (Evocation)

  Level:  2
  Range:  60 yards + 10 yards/level
  Components:  V,S,M
  Duration:  Instantaneous
  Casting Time:  2
  Area of Effect:  1 creature
  Saving Throw:  Special

  This spell is used by a wizard who truly appreciates the many
  uses of one of man's greatest creations, the ladder. In this spell,
  a ladder of pure energy is emitted from the caster's fingertips.
  The ladder consists of as many rungs as the caster has levels. When
  the ladder hits the target, the rungs progressively burst on the
  target for 1d4 points of damage per rung, to a maximum of 10d4.  A
  successful saving throw indicates the target has managed to dodge
  some part of the ladder, and damage is reduced to 1 point/rung.
  The material component of the spell is a one inch diameter by
  1/2 inch thick section of a ladder rung.  On one side is written
  "Spell Use Only--Evocation Department".  On the other is a large
  "V" with the letters "I.G.A.F." below it.




  Xaviar's Leaf Filter (Alteration, Divination)

  Level:  2
  Range:  0
  Components:  V, S
  Duration:  1 round/level
  Casting Time:  2
  Area of Effect:  Caster
  Saving Throw:  Special

  The casting of this spell allows the mage to filter any leaves
  out of his vision for the spells duration.  The leaves are treated
  as if they weren't present only for vision purposes.  Spells that
  require a line of sight will work for the caster.
  This spell was developed after one too many forest ambushes.
  Note that it will not detect invisible creatures, only those using
  natural cover.


  Quiz's Deathbow (Conjuration/Summoning)

  Level:  3
  Range:  Special
  Components:  V, S, M
  Duration:  Special
  Casting Time:  3
  Area of Effect:  Special
  Saving Throw:  1/2

  At the completion of casting, a magical short bow is created in
  the spell caster's hand.  This bow allows the wizard to use it as
  if he were a fighter of the same level, proficient in short bow.
  The wizard also gains any DEX missile attack adjustments.  The bow
  itself has a +1 to hit.  It damage varies on the amount that you
  pull the string back.  Maximum damage is equal to d6/level.
  Different combinations of arrows can be created.  Two arrows per
  round can be fired, as long as the maximum damage has not yet been
  met.  For example, if the caster is of eighth level, he can fire
  eight 1d6 arrows over the course of 4 rounds minimum, a single 8d6
  arrow, or any combination between the two.  The bow remains in the
  caster's hand until all of the magical energy is used up, to a
  maximum of 1 round/level; until the caster decides to cast another
  spell; or until the caster is hit with a successful Dispel Magic.
  At the completion of the spell, the bow vanishes.  The range of the
  bow is 5/10/15.
  The material component for the bow is a miniature gold short
  bow of great artistry worth at least 1,000 gp.  For every d6 of
  damage fired from the Deathbow, the material component drops in
  value by 5 gp.  Note that this is FIRED damage, not POTENTIAL
  damage.  If the caster can fire 8d6 worth of arrows, but chooses to
  use only 4d6, the gold bow decreases by 20 gp.




  Quiz's Nullifying Magic (Illusion/Phantasm)

  Level:  3
  Range:  30 yards + 10 yards/level
  Components:  V, S
  Duration:  1 round/level
  Casting Time:  3
  Area of Effect:  1 magic using creature
  Saving Throw:  Special

  When this spell is cast, the wizard creates the illusion of one
  of the most fearsome things imaginable to the victim, simply by
  forming the fears of the victim's subconscious mind into something
  that his conscious mind can visualize.  In this case, the fear is
  that the victim can no longer cast spells.
  The only defense against Quiz's Nullifying Magic is an attempt
  to disbelieve, which can be tried as many times as desired.  To
  disbelieve the phantasm, the subject *must specifically state that
  he is making the attempt* and then roll a saving throw vs. spell.
  For each attempt of a saving throw after the first there is a -1
  to the roll.  For example, attempting a fourth saving throw would
  have a -3 penalty to the dice roll.

------------------------------ End of body part 3


