
------------------------------ Start of body part 1

               Forgotten Realms Notebook

                         Volume 3









  About This Notebook                                     1
  Campaign Ideas                                          3
  Scenerio #1   [Altered Version of Doom of Daggerdale]   3
  Scenerio #2  [Adventure  outline for Daggerdale Region] 5
  Scenerio #3  [A New Ice Age!]                               15
  Iyachtu Xvim (the Son of Bane)                          18
  Note On Faiths                                          21
  Spheres for Realms Gods                                 23
  List of Herbs                                           24
  New Magic Items                                         27
  Mistledale                                                  28
  New Spells                                                  30
  INDEX                                                   39



  About This Notebook:


  The Forgotten Realms Notebooks are a collection of notes
  from various sources on the Internet.  Most have been
  collected from messages left on the Forgotten Realms
  list group (realms@ossi.com) and the UseNet discussion
  group (alt.rec.games.frp.dnd).  I have compiled these
  messages somewhat into an orderly fashion and made
  some minor adjustments for contextual purposes.  Every
  5 volumes of the FR Notebooks will be compiled into one
  giant FR Compendium.  The included information lists
  the contributing authors of the associated works.

  I hold no responsibility for the content or accuracy in
  the provided information.  (I just make it more pleasing
  to look at and use.)

  P_Horner@ASU.EDU



  Daggerdale Region
  -----------------

  =Campaign Ideas=

  Scenerio #1   [Altered Version of Doom of Daggerdale]

  From: Chris Seabrook <cds@ossi.com>


  My altered version of Doom of Daggerdale; will be a prelude to the
   Daggerdale; Trilogy.  Here are some brief sketches; comments are
  appreciated:

  SPEAR OF DAGGERDALE: Randall Morn calls for aid from the heroes.  It
  seems the legendary Spear of Daggerdale *does* exist after all.  The Spear
  was
  an artifact up until now believed legendary; it was said an army that held
  the
  Spear was undefeatable.  It was believed lost in the time of Randall's great-
  great-great grandfather; he had been on the throne for but a yaer when his
  four brothers stole the Spear in jealousy, split it into four pieces using
  a vorpal blade, and each escaped with a piece.  The Zhentarim, however, have
  stumbled upon information that will allow them to find the four pieces;
  after Randall (a worshipper of Tymora) discovered this, a half-elven seer
  came to his camp, claiming visions had been sent to him of the Spear.
   Randall
  is unable to spare the men and so dispatches the PCs (his friends from DOOM)
  along with the seer to investigate this claim.  This takes the PCs on a trip
  through the Dales (including a sequence underwater in Shadowdale, where they
  meet Ashaba, the original Lord of Shadowdale, now a water elemental-like
  being).  It ends in Myth Drannor, the only place the Spear can be reforged.

  REBELS OF DAGGERDALE: Assuming the PCs recovered the Spear,
  this module occurs some time later, within months of the fall of Zhentil Keep

  in PRINCE OF LIES. Dagger Falls had been flooded with those Zhentarim; that
  escaped the fall of the Keep; however, Cyric, enraged at the Zhents' (and
  specifically
  Fzoul's) betrayal, set a trap for them.  He granted special powers to a
  priestess of
  his in Daggerdale (Eragyn from DOOM); Randall Morn, emboldened by the fall of
  the Keep (Tren's backers) and driven on by the Spear (more on that later),
  sieges the city -- as Cyric knew he would.  However, one of Randall's men
  turns traitor and steals the Spear.  It is at this point the PCs arrive,
  having been called back to Dagger Falls for the siege.
       After an investigation, it is revealed the "traitor" was none other than
  Maxas, Randall's bodyguard since he was a child.  Maxas stole the Spear
  because of its effect on Randall (remember, artifacts tend to twist the
  character of those who wield them); the Spear engendered in its wielder a
  powerful desire to defend Daggerdale from invaders at any cost, which led to
  years of heavy losses among many of Randall's friends.  Maxas, however,
  attempts to escape with the Spear but is waylaid by monsters (haven't decided
  what kind yet) sent by Cyric.  He reveals all this to the PCs as he dies.


          The PCs then must recover the Spear.  Upon doing so, though, they
  return to find the siege camp under assault by undead coming from Dagger
  Falls
  After a battle, they learn Randall has fallen; near death, he charges the PCs
  to lead the assault on the city.  He then falls comatose.  The PCs sneak into
  the city to find it a charnel house; all the inhabitants who had not fled
  (including the Zhent refugees) have been slain and raised as undead.  THe
  PCs learn (through the seer from SPEAR) that the source of Eragyn's power
  is a stone given her by Cyric; the only way to destroy the stone is with the
  Spear.  After a few battles and such, the PCs face Eragyn.  The ending is
  unique in that I may be having to have one of the PCs sacrifice their life
  (permanently?) to destroy the stone; contact between the stone and the Spear
  creates a huge explosion.
       Afterwards, they return to learn Randall has recovered.  All in all, a
  bittersweet victory...

      (1) Randall has a woman that he is in love with, yet he has vowed neither
          to marry her or to have relations with her until Daggerdale is in his
          control.
      (2) Tren is the only one (apart from Eragyn) still alive in Dagger Falls;
          however, he has been driven insane and is but a mindless husk, his
          face forever contorted in a look of pure horror.


  SECRET OF DAGGERDALE: Scene shifts to five years later.  Dagger Falls; has
  been rebuilt, with Randall as lord.  However, he never revealed exactly how
  he was able to recover from his mortal wounds in REBELS.  Now it will be
  told.
       Exactly five years from the day he recovered, Randall is visited by a
  dark armored figure.  Turns out he made a pact with an otherworldly figure
  (haven't decided who or what yet -- any suggestions?) while comatose: in
  exchange for his recovery and peace in the dale for 5 years, both Randall and
  the dale (and all inhabitants) would be forfeit to the power.  The dale
  (along with the PCs, who were there for the celebration of the anniversary)
  is cast into a hellish nightmare land.  [BTW, yes, this pact would be in
  character for Randall at the time of REBELS; he was nearly driven out of his
  mind by the Spear.  Later, he had merely assumed it was a feverish dream].

       [No ending as yet ]


  Scenerio #2  [Adventure  outline for Daggerdale Region]


  From: "Eric L. Boyd" <boyd@eecs.umich.edu>


  Background

          Daggerdale;, traditionally one of the most isolated and reclusive of
  the
  Dales, is under siege from all sides. Goblins and orcs raid down from the
  mountains, brigands hired by Zhentil Keep mount increasingly frequent
  guerrilla
  attacks, and as law and order break down, more and more monsters are seen
  from
  the Border Forest and Spiderhaunt Woods. The Dalesmen are fighting back
  against
  these incursions, and they have some help from the nation of Cormyr to the
  south
  and Shadowdale to the east, but brave heroes are needed if Daggerdale is to
  be
  saved!
          Located in a small valley nestled between the Desertmouth Mountains;
  to
  the west, the Border Forest to the north, and the Dagger Hills to the east,
  the
  dale is settled primarily by hunters, trappers, and fishermen. Most of the
  inhabitants are human, although not a few inhabitants have elven blood,
  tracing
  their ancestors back to the Gold elves of the Border Forest who have long
  since
  vanished, and the remainder are Tallfellow halflings.
          The only community of any size is the town of Dagger Falls; located
  on
  the northern banks of the River Tesh; which flows east towards the Moonsea.
  In
  years past, it served as a common market for the dalesmen to sell their crops
  and products to merchants of the Moonsea, but in recent years it has fallen
  on
  hard times with the collapse of Teshendale and the rise of Zhentil Keep. A
  variety of other hamlets are located throughout the valley, but none have
  more
  than forty inhabitants.
          Daggerdale is ruled by a council of twelve elders, elected by the
  various hamlets and the citizens of Dagger Falls. The current chief elder of
  the
  council is Dalar Melinth, a farmer with large landholdings along the banks of
  the River Tesh west of Dagger Falls. The council determines the taxes of the
  dalefolk, primarily used to fund the militia. All able-bodied dalesmen and
  daleswomen are expected to serve in the reserve militia, including at least
  two
  years of active duty. In addition, Daggerdale has employed many mercenaries,
  including a detachment of Red Plumes from Hillsafar to aid in its defense.


  Current Threats

          Daggerdale is threatened by many different groups and monsters, all
  with different sinister purposes which brave heroes will have to overwhelm!
  Following is a list of some of the most sinister foes.

  Zhentarim; Forces
          Based in Zhentil Keep, the Zhentarim is a sinister organization of
  priests of Bane, evil wizards, fearsome fighters, and dastardly thieves. They
  are currently interested in destroying Daggerdale as it lies astride a major
  trade route they are trying to establish. Currently only well-armed caravans
  will pass through Daggerdale and then only through the more remote sections,
  but
  they usually pass unhindered. In addition, several groups of brigands roam
  the
  wilder reaches of Daggerdale in the employ of Zhentil Keep under Zhentarim
  commanders. They terrorize outlying farms, raid merchants, ambush militia
  patrols and generally cause as much mayhem and terror as possible without
  risk
  to themselves. This is part of the plan to "soften up" Daggerdale before the
  eventual invasion.

  Cult of the Wolf
          This evil cult is based in the southern reaches of the Border Forest.
  Founded by a priest of Malar named Slemdrak Wolfclaw, who is also a werewolf,
  he
  has infected most of the members of this small but growing cult with
  lycanthropy. On nights of a full moon, the members of the cult gather into
  the
  Pack and roam the countryside attacking solitary travelers and outlying
  farms.
  Its members include Zhentarim brigands and dalesmen of the region and,
  according
  to rumors, one council elder.

  Bloody Dagger Goblin Tribe
          Based in the Dagger Hills; between Shadowdale and Daggerdale, this
  large
  goblin tribe is widely scattered, living in small family groups that owe
  loose
  allegiance to a renegade hill giant named Grolth, believed to be a priest of
  the
  dark god Cyric. There are many lost burial mounds and tombs of unknown origin
  in
  the Dagger Hills. While most of the goblins live in crude structures or
  shallow
  caves, some have taken up residence in plundered tombs. The goblins survive
  by
  aiding neighboring farms and limited trapping and hunting. Of late they seem
  to
  have gotten bolder as the Daggerdale militia is stretched thinner and
  thinner.
  Grolth has plundered many tombs himself and has freed numerous undead to
  wander
  the countryside which prey on goblin and dalesmen alike.


  Minions of the Spider King
          To the south of Daggerdale lies a sinister woodland known as the
  Spiderhaunt Woods. Known to be inhabited by numerous giant spiders and
  ettercaps, these monsters have been seen more and more frequently in the
  southern reaches of Daggerdale hunting for prey and prisoners. It is believed
  the spiders were introduced in ages past by drow who used the woodlands as a
  breeding ground. Tunnels are rumored to still connect the depths of the wood
  with the Underdark;, and from these tunnels has emerged the Spider King. He
  is
  believed to be a drider necromancer who uses spiders of the wood to bring
  back
  human captives for his evil experiments.

  Screaming Banshee Orc Tribe
          This widely scattered orc tribe lairs in the Desertmouth Mountains;
  along
  the western border of Daggerdale. Rangers of the Fellowship of the Silver
  Unicorn in Daggerdale have traditionally eliminated any orc with enough
  promise
  to assume leadership of the entire tribe, and as a result this tribe,
  although
  numerous, is fragmented into numerous competing clans which war against each
  other incessantly. If a strong leader were to emerge, the Screaming Banshees
  could easily overrun Daggerdale, but for the time being, isolated orc clans
  launch infrequent nighttime raids against the western regions of Daggerdale.

  NPCs
  Friendly Forces

          Daggerdale would quickly be overwhelmed if it were not for the
  efforts
  of several organizations based in the region. These existence of these groups
  is common knowledge, but their membership fluctuates and some of the groups
  are
  not forthcoming about who exactly are members.

  Circle of the Seven Daggers
          This is a small circle of druids based in Daggerdale who serve
  Chauntea
  and administer to the farmers in the region. None are of particularly great
  power, and the circle is currently in disarray as several high-ranking druids
  have recently been assassinated by agents of Zhentil Keep. These druids work
  closely with the members of the Fellowship of the Silver Unicorn, but
  maintain
  their distance from the priests of the Temple of Helm.


  Fellowship of the Silver Unicorn
          This is a loose fellowship of rangers and bards who worship Mielikki
  and
  are based in the Daggerdale region, many of whom are scouts in Daggerdale
  militia. They serve as a spy network for the leaders of Daggerdale, and do
  their best to protect outlying farms. In more peaceful times, they attempt to
  insure that men do not overhunt or destroy the surrounding wilderness, but
  currently they are concerned more with the rise of evil forces in the land.
  They
  work closely with the Circle of Seven Daggers and the Temple of Helm. It is
  believed this organization is discretely backed by the Harpers, a secretive
  force of good throughout the north.

  Temple of Helm
          Worship of Helm, the god of guardians, has always been strong in the
  Daggerdale region, especially with the rise of Zhentil Keep in the region. As
  Daggerdale's troubles have increased in recent years the priests of Helm have
  assumed command over the Daggerdale militia and played an increasing role in
  the
  governing of Daggerdale. Several small shrines exist throughout Daggerdale,
  but
  the main temple-fortress guards the eastern approach to Dagger Falls.
  Relations
  are tense with the druids of the Circle of Seven Daggers, but the priests are
  building strong contacts with the rangers of the Fellowship of the Silver
  Unicorn as they face common enemies.

  Cormyrian Army Outpost
          The Purple Dragons of Cormyr are currently hard at work
  rehabilitating
  an abandoned keep in southwest Daggerdale, known as Castle Dunbarton, as they
  have a strong interest in preventing Zhentil Keep from overwhelming the
  region.
  They have not yet been "invited" in by the Daggerdale council, so they are
  keeping their presence a secret and obtaining supplies from the garrison in
  Tilverton.  Cormyr's ambassador is the War Wizard Elemkatha (M7) who
  currently
  resides in a small tower outside of Dagger Falls and aids in the defense of
  Daggerdale as well as training the promising members of the local populace in
  the use of magic. She is currently trying to convince the more stubborn
  members
  of the Daggerdale council to sign a mutual defense treaty with Cormyr and
  allow
  a garrison to be stationed in the dale. Although most members are resisting
  because Daggerdale is traditionally independent and isolationist, Elemkatha
  believes at least some of those resisting CormyrUs offer are in the employ of

  Zhentil Keep or the Cult of the Wolf.


  Bandits in the Hills
  (Adventure #1)

  Setup Notes
          The purpose of the following adventure is to bring the adventurers
  together and get them used to working together. Before this adventure begins,
  they have all been secretly recruited by the Cormyrian War Wizard Elemkatha.
  The DM should individually roleplay each playerUs recruitment before
  beginning
  the adventure.

  Background
          Unbeknownst to most of Daggerdale's inhabitants, Cormyr has been
  secretly aiding Daggerdale to survive multiple threats from surrounding
  hostile
  powers. Cormyr is attempting to convince the Daggerdale council to invite
  them
  in openly, but so far the council members have stubbornly resisted all
  outside
  assistance.
          Cormyr's ambassador to Daggerdale is the War Wizard Elemkatha. She
  has
  been coordinating CormyrUs efforts in the RcapitalS of Dagger Falls to swing
  the
  councils votes. Meanwhile Cormyr has been secretly refurbishing the abandoned
  keep known as Castle Dunbarton in southwestern Daggerdale as a future base in
  the region. Elemkatha has been sending frequent secret correspondence to the
  Commander at Castle Dunbarton which is then sent on to Suzail advising Cormyr
  of events in this corner of the world.
          Unfortunately the most recent dispatch from Castle Dunbarton has
  disappeared along with its messenger, a young ranger by the name of Kelvan
  Fleetfeet. Through the use of several divination spells, Elemkatha has
  determined that Kelvan was abducted by bandits based at the western tip of
  the
  northern end of the Dagger Hills in an abandoned watchtower. If these bandits
  realize what they have seized and pass it on to either the Daggerdale Council
  or agents of Zhentil Keep, this could seriously derail Cormyrss attempts to
  support Daggerdale, and the Castle Dunbarton project might have to be
  abandoned.
   In her position of Cormyrss ambassador, Elemkatha can not go traipsing off
  into the wilderness, and she does not want to raise any suspicion among the
  numerous agents of various powers in Dagger Falls that there is something of
  value in the Dagger Hills.
          Instead, Elemkatha has decided to surreptiously hire a band of
  adventurers to raid the bandit's tower as this will attract a lot less
  attention. She has attempted to recruit the best of the Ryoung adventurerS
  types who have moved into Daggerdale in recent months as chaos descends over
  the
  region. Without explaining the details of the correspondence she wishes to
  recover, she has just put together a band of young adventurers (the PCs) to
  go
  raid the bandit's keep.


  Wilderness Encounters

  1) Disturb a black bear (hp 17) and her cub (hp 5) in the woods south of
  Dagger Falls.
  2) Travel up a dry streambed and dislodge a thirst of nine stirges (hp 6
  each).
  Find ancient magical dagger +1.
  3) Nighttime attack by a small band of six skeletons (hp 5 each) armed with
  goblin weapons dislodged from their ancient barrow by goblins (who have
  subsequently perished). Their instructions from the long-dead necromancer
  were to attack all that they encountered (appropriate for the tomb they were
  supposed to be guarding.) They are garbed in decrepit garments (once
  worth a fortune) and fine gold jewelry (all told worth 65 gp).


  Keep Encounters
          The following brigand stronghold is based upon "Brigand's Lair"
  adventure in Wilderness Encounters book. There are seventeen brigand's

Due to its size, this text item will be continued in the next text item.

------------------------------ Start of body part 2

  overall
  lairing in an old abandoned watchtower. The tower sits on top of a high cliff
  on
  the western edge of the Dagger Hills; at the point closest to the road that
  leads
  south from Dagger Falls toward Tilverton. At the base of the cliff flows the
  River Dagger which eventually links up with the River Tesh east of Dagger
  Falls.
          The watchtower was used originally to help secure the trade road
  south
  from the goblins in the hills. It was eventually abandoned for lack of funds
  as
  Daggerdale has fallen on hard times in recent years. Three months ago, a band
  of
  brigands moved in and have been "taxing" passing caravans ever since. The
  leader
  of the band is secretly in the employ of Zhentil Keep, and thus allows
  Zhentarim
  caravans to pass unmolested. All others are fair game though.
          Unbeknownst to the builders of the watch tower or the current
  occupents,
  an ancient tomb exists below the watchtower's basement. Built ages ago by a
  long
  forgotten culture, the catacombs were carved into the heart of the hill and
  the
  permanently sealed. Since that time, the river has worn away the hillside to
  form the cliff which exists today. The barrow is inhabited by an ancient
  wight,
  freed after centuries of imprisonment by a rockslide over a decade ago. The
  wight climbed up the cliffside and slew several members of the local militia
  stawhen a rockslide on the cliff created an opening into the barrow. This
  occurred back when the watchtower was in use by the local militia. The
  "mysterious deaths" were due to the wight.

  Barrow Encounters
  Kelvan  attempted to tunnel out of his cell in the basement of the keep, and
  unknowingly broke into an ancient barrow beneath the tower. Unable to climb
  out, he
  disturbed a wight buried within, and is now a half-strength wight under its
  control. The
  bandits never found the correspondence he was carrying, and now the wight
  which was
  Kelvan still has the correspondence strapped to its body.

  1) Hallway lined with twelve skeleton guards (hp 7 each) in bronze plate mail

  armed with footmanUs flails. (Kelvan avoided this main hall by going
  through a secret door which is now barred from the inside that leads to the
  main tomb.
  2) Ancient barrow of a wight (hp 21) and Kelvan, now a half-wight (hp 10).
  The wight wields the blade named in its inscription as RBloodthirstS - a
  scimitar of wounding +1.
  3) Secret treasure room protected by a long dormant brown mold. Arrayed on a
  small platform is a suit of ancient bronze plate +1,  a set of 12 crystal
  goblets worth 15 gp each, and a rotten wooden chest containing 500
  electrum pieces of ancient coinage.



  Wilderness Encounters

  1) Ambush outside banditUs tower by 10 goblins (hp 4 each) of the Bloody
  Dagger tribe and two pet ghost (large) spiders (hp 9, 8) who observed
  the party attack the bandit stronghold (they had been planning to attack
  themselves in the near future) and have decided to fleece the victors of
  their
  spoils. The goblins carry 38 pieces of silver all told and unusually fine
  weapons. (This should raise some eyebrows and be investigated at a later
  date).

  The Lost Mines of Tethyamir
  (Adventure #3)

          Located in the mountains northwest of Daggerdale are the fabled
  dwarven Mines of
  Tethyamir. The kingdom of the Iron House was overrun by tribes of orcs and
  goblins
  many years ago and its rulers went into exile. Recently however their have
  been several
  rumors that dwarves have retaken their ancient homeland. If this is true, the
  dwarves might
  be willing to provide a lifeline of weapons and armor in return for crops and
  meat from
  Daggerdale.
          There is believed to be an entrance to the dwarven realms beneath the
  long
  abandoned Eastgate Keep which sits in ruins beneath the shadow of Twinpeak
  Mountain.
  Volunteers from Daggerdale's finest are needed to explore the deep realms
  beneath the
  mountains to determine if indeed the dwarves have returned and whether they
  are willing to
  engage in mutually beneficial trade with Daggerdale. The deep tunnels are
  sure to be filled
  with strange monsters and long lost treasures. In addition, rumors speak of a
  slumbering
  evil which must not be awakened. Heroes are needed!


  Eastgate Keep

  Players' Knowledge:
          The forboding fortress known as Eastgate Keep has long been
  abandoned. It sits in
  the shadow of Twinpeak Mountain, located on the eastern slopes of the
  northern end of the
  Desertmouth mountain range. It was originally built centuries ago by dwarves
  for the men
  of Daggerdale to guard the entrance to the caverns along which trade flowed
  between the
  two communities. It was eventually conquered by orcs after they overran the
  Mines of
  Tethyamir. The castle soon fell into neglect and is now nothing but a ruins.
  Beneath the
  ruins are supposed to lie many chambers hewed from living rock to temporarily
  store trade-
  goods passing between the communities of men and dwarves. It is unknown what
  horrors
  may currently make their abode in the chambers beneath the ruins, but they
  are sure to be
  hostile to humans and demihumans. It is rumored that the bowels of the
  fortress contain an
  entrance to caverns connecting with the Mines of Tethyamir, but whether this
  is still true or
  ever was is unknown today.

  Dungeon Master's Background:
          Currently the chambers beneath Eastgate Keep are inhabited by a clan
  of orcs (the
  "Elfskulls", members of the Screaming Banshee tribe) ruled by a self-styled
  ogre "king"
  named Vrag'ral. Vrag'ral hails from the northern reaches of the Border
  Forest, but prefers
  the easy living in his petty "kingdom". The clan raises giant rats and fungi
  for food, but
  prefers to supplement their diets by raiding the surrounding lands.
          The orcsU giant rat herds are often preyed upon by tunneling osquips,
  and the orcs
  themselves are occasionally preyed upon by a slithering tracker. (This beast
  may leave in an
  adventurer's backpack when they return to town, and later turn up as the
  source of deadly
  "vampire" rumors.) Numerous bats inhabit the chambers, and the restless
  spirits of
  dwarven and human warriors stalk the halls.
          In the deepest levels of the fortress a band of shadows will be found
  who make
  their lair in the gatehouse to the caverns below. They share their lair with
  a doombat which
  hunts the length of the subterranean river below. As a reward, the
  adventurers should
  discover a magical folding boat which they can use to navigate the Deepflow.


  Deepflow, River of the Depths
  Players' Knowledge:
          Beneath the Desertmouth Mountains; is said to flow a large river
  connecting many of
  the caverns beneath the mountains. It is believed to have countless
  tributaries and dark
  grottos and is inhabited by many fell beasts. It is rumored, of course, to
  also contain
  numerous long-lost treasures of inestimable worth.

  Dungeon Master's Background:
          The river does flow the length of the Desertmouth Mountains,
  absorbing much of
  the run-off that would otherwise irrigate the desert lands west of the
  mountains. The river
  is the home of numerous bands of merrow and scrags who prey on the numerous
  blind
  cave fish and crabs when they cannot find anything more appetizing. Many
  other beasts
  from the depths use the river for transportation and trade as it has a very
  slow current and
  by its twists and turns connects most of the major caverns beneath the
  caverns.
          The section of interest to this adventure forces the adventurers to
  confront the
  minions and slaves of an evil aboleth named Ss'ral'kek'nza and eventually the
  aboleth
  himself as the aboleth's domain sits astride the trade route the adventurers
  wish to reopen.
          After defeating the aboleth, the adventurers should recover the
  treasures from the
  tomb of a lost dwarven king whose burial barge sank ages ago. These return of
  these prizes
  to the dwarves of Tethyamir should facilitate the reopening of trade
  relations.

  East Caverns
  Players' Knowledge
          It is doubtful that the adventurers will have any inkling of the
  existence of a twisting
  maze of passages and caverns connecting the Mines of Tethyamir to the
  Deepflow. At best
  they may have heard of a section known to the dwarves as the Eastern Caverns.
  This
  section of the Underdark; was never fully explored in its heyday, and now its
  denizens are
  completely unknown.

  Dungeon Masters Background
          The East Caverns are a maze of tiny chambers and twisting passages.
  It is currently
  inhabited by several green slimes, magically corrupted "bloodsucking"
  jermlaine, and a
  slithermorph and its herds of cave spiders. There may also be several steel
  shadows lairing
  in the tunnels amidst the long-lost armor and weapons of fallen dwarven
  patrols.


  Mines of Tethyamir
  Players' Knowledge
          The rumored wealth of the dwarves of the Iron House who dwelled in
  the Mines of
  Tethyamir is fabled to be beyond imagining. Until recently the mines had been
  in the hands
  of orcs, goblins, and worse, but currently it is believed that the dwarves
  have returned in
  triumph.

  Dungeon Masters Background
          The dwarves are back in control, but their hold is tenuous at best.
  Surviving orcs
  and goblins have retreated down into the depths of the mines, where they are
  being
  reorganized by a foul creature known only as the "Dark One". In actuality the
  monster is
  Nabassu, a type of Greater Tanar'ri from the Abyss. In addition, steel
  shadows, oozes,
  cave fishers, and worse stalk the dwarven mine shafts and city. There are
  rumored to be
  outposts of the drow and duergar within a days march of the city, and a giant
  city of of
  "fish-men" or kuo-toa deep beneath the dwarven caverns.


  Scenerio #3  [A New Ice Age!]

  From:  Aguinaldo Rangel   <ag@ax.ibase.br>

    1) From the news of 1357 DR in the Old Gray Box :
       - The winter was very cold this year
       - Haspur, a trance-prophet from Baldur's Gate has foretold the
         appearance of a powerful magic called "The Ring of Winter" will
         be soon rediscovered (and will probably represent a menace to all...)

    2) From the news of 1358 DR in FR5 "Savage Frontier" :
       - The winter is getting worse year after year
       - Frost giants terrorize the cities in the winter

    3) From the adventure ideas in FR5 :
       - The Frost Wizards (Frost Giant mages specialized in "cold magic")
         are appearing in the North

    4) From the novel "Shadowdale" in the Avatars Trilogy
       - Adventurers are hearing legends of an Artifact called "The Ring of
         Winter", that gives immortality to its wearer and could bring an Ice
         Age to the Realms. Groups of adventurers are seeking the Artifact.

    5) From all the references of the God's Pantheon in the Realms :
       - The Goddess Auril, "The Frostmaiden", wants nothing more than ice,
         cold and all-time winter covering Faerun. Her icepriests are
  widespread
         through the North, and are starting to appear also in other places in
         the Heartlands. They are immune to normal cold and have special ice-
         related powers.

    6) From the Monster Mythology :
       - The Demi-God Kostchtchie, is bringing above-average intelligent
         Frost Giants to the Abyss to train them in magic, in order to augment
         his worship among the Frost Giants. He is eager to capture the most
         magic possible for himself and his followers (mainly planar travelling
         devices). If a permanent "gate" could be opened by powerful priests
         and/or wizards, he can send his Avatar to the Prime Material Plane.
         His special servants are called "Wyrmkin" and can summon powerful
         White Dragons to serve them. As a demon... oops ;-) Tanar'ri-Lord he
         has a great quantity of Tanar'ri that he can unleash on the Prime
         Material if he thought his purposes could be well served.


    7) From the novel "Ring of Winter"
       - The Cult of Frost organization, that seemed a bunch of powerful mages
         and perhaps clerics, that could summon certain ice creatures, and that
         wanted to find "The Ring of Winter".

    8) From the novel "Prince of Lies"
       - The existence of powerful Ice para-elemental lords who can possibly
         have servants among many ice-creatures (like Frost Giants,...)

    9) From the novel "Soldiers of Ice"
       - A portal to an Ice Plane (possibly the frigid Caina, 8th of the Nine
         Hells or the Para-Elemental plane of Ice) is opened and the Hapers
         send an agent with the mission to seal it (with powerful magic), but
         before that some creatures enter the Realms and wreak some havok...


  "The Year of the Maidens" (1361 DR).
    Several rumors are circulating in Fearun about the "Servants of Cold".
    It is whispered that an alliance has been formed by several cults and
    wizards that are working in secret to find the powerful "Ring of Winter",
    and with it, "cleanse" Faerun from all "dirt, perversion and ignominia",
    using a New Ice Age as the end of known civilization (at least in the
    Northern Heartlands) and the beggining of a new "pure" one...

    Wizards specialized in ice magic, the Church of Auril, the Cult of Frost
    and possible influences from Outer Planar creatures, mix to form a powerful
    group of plotters to make this "Cold Alliance" and (of course) to oppose
    the PCs.


    2) You need powerful (read 18th level or greater) Wizards and Priests NPCs
       to array into the Evil Alliance in the plot. 5 NPCs from TSR sources :

       a) Radoc "The One", from FR5 "The Savage Frontier"
       b) Shandaril, from "The Magister"
       c) Dracandros "The Red", from "Curse of the Azure Bonds" (this is one of
          the infamous recurring villains in my campaign...)
       d) Velsharoon (mentioned in "Halls of the High King" and Polyhedron #55)
       e) Wulgreth, the Lich, from FR5 "The Savage Frontier"


       Note that these must have clear motives. The results of an Ice Age
       (Chaos, death of whole populations, migrations to the South, etc.)
       will not be in the interest of say, Maaril from Waterdeep, but would
       suit well a Lich or a powerful Archmage who wants isolation and/or the
       death of the majority of his rivals. Fanatics who see the present
       civilization as doomed and want to start over on their own terms,
       could also suit the needed profile.

       Currently my trend is to gather some oddballs and reunite them with a
       compelling discourse presented by a NPC of mine that is the real agent
       behind the scenes. The motivations exclude some organizations like the
       Zhentarim from joining with this "Cold Alliance" (in fact they would
       probably actively oppose them if they knew about their plans, as the
       results could only hurt their interest and their city). On the other
       hand the Brotherhood of the Arcane (from Luskan) might be inclined to
       join in (they could protect their city in advance and turn it into
       the new center of civilization. What do you think ?)





                The Rising in Power of a New LE God
                       Iyachtu Xvim (the Son of Bane)

  BY:  Aguinaldo Rangel                              <ag@ax.ibase.br>



    His entry in RtR mentions that his following is strongest in the East
  (particularly Thay), but in my campaign he has found a powerful follower
  in the North :

    Radoc, "The One", from FR5 "Savage Frontier". Radoc is a powerful
  Archmage-priest that has recently given up returning to his original
  plane of New Empyrea (where he was a priest of a Power named Tangg). Since
  he was exiled in Faerun he did not receive any spells from his old god, and
  with time he decided that he liked this new plane and this North part of
  Faerun was a place that was ripe to see the evolution of a new kingdom
  and perhaps a new religion too. He then studies the recent happenings here
  (the ToT) and becomes interested in a young God that has much field to
  improve. He feels that the Godson's interests and "alignment" is attuned to
  his own. Then he prays to him. And prays. And prays. Then Xvim answers! Radoc
   is what he needed for a long time! The perfect instrument to start his new
  church in the Heartlands! A man fit to be his right hand! Ambitious, powerful
  and unknown in the Heartlands! A man with the necessary charisma to speak
  to people and make them flock to him! (If you have the module I12 "Egg of the
  Phoenix" you will see that Radoc is very powerful indeed and that he lived
  for a few centuries before coming to Faerun. He is ancient, wise, and evil).
  Radoc also sees that he has much to gain by converting himself to Xvim, and
  more when the god promises that he will become the head of his new church
  in the Realms. The 1st Arch-Priest of Xvim; is born! Already his followers
  are spreading fast in Thay, Amn, Calimsham and other places. Radoc travels
  to establish contacts and make his new god's teachings known. After this he
  returns to the North ready to initiate a very ambitious plan : to help Xvim
  to attain the powers of a Greater God, and to establish a new kingdom in
  the North - a magocracy like Thay, but firmly entrenched in the new religion.

  The Story:

    1) What is Xvim's "Area of Control" ? What Ethos could he choose for his
  religion ? What are the tenets of his church ? He is described as violent,
  vain and savage, but he is no fool. He learned much with his father and
  probably learned more during the ToT and when Bane died. He wants power above
  all (and for that he knows he needs a church and followers!). May he try to
  take some of the old followers of Bhaal away from Cyric ? (In FRA it is said
  that the rural followers of Bhaal did not accept Cyric's way; might they be
  gathered by Xvim's new faith? Remember : Xvim has the same general alignment
  and disposition as Bhaal had... he exults in slaying and destruction...).
  Also some old Banites were converted to Xvim (as is said in RtR in the new
  Boxed Set), probably because he is perceived by the dissenters to be more
  attuned to his father's aims than Cyric is... (and now that Cyric is pending
  more and more to Chaos - in the end of "Prince of Lies" he will be totally
  CE - maybe the Banites could judge that Xvim is the right god to preside over
  Tyranny, the more Lawful of the Ethos of his father taken by Cyric...)

    2) He has had no relationship with the other gods since the ToT, but with
  his new level of power (currently Lesser Power, in my campaign, but still
  growing in power) he would be noted by them. Note that the only other LE
  power is Loviatar, and as such there is a vacuum of power that Xvim is most
  eager to fill... Could conflicts arise with other gods ? Could Loviatar
  follow him as she once followed his father (through Bhaal) ?

    3) Where would be his home ? Although he is a native of the Prime Material
  Plane, he could take over his father's abode in Acheron (that was probably
  never used by Cyric) or make a new home in Gehenna... What do you think ?

    4) Where do you think are the most ripe areas for the spreading of his
  religion ? Who would make his followers ?

    5) Do you see other NPCs of note that could be converted to Xvim ?

    Note :
    In my campaign Radoc's conversion and Xvim's rise in power happen before
  Radoc is contacted by the "Cold Alliance" and accepts the invitation (by

Due to its size, this text item will be continued in the next text item.

------------------------------ Start of body part 3

  the Mage Shandaril) to be one of their "Inner Circle". Xvim is aware of their
  plans, and as a new Ice Age will represent a great setback to the majority
  of the "good" religions in the Heartlands, he supports Radoc as his priest
  starts working with the other members of the "Cold Alliance". Radoc has the
  magical and financial resources to put his plans in motion. He has a secret
  organized power-base somewhere in the Star Mountains (where he mantains his
  magical apparatus), has good contacts with the Ice Mountain Orcs of the Spine
  of the World, and the people of Loudwater see him as a wise old healer...




  [The following by: "Eric L. Boyd" <boyd@eecs.umich.edu>]

              Iyachtu Xvim; and his specialty priests:

  Xvim is a Lesser Power from Acheron. His title/are of control is slaying
  and destruction. His worshippers alignment is LE or NE. His sex is male.
  His symbol is a pair of green, glowing eyes on a black field.

  Xvim is worshipped primarily in Thay, but he has subverted the Risen Cult of
  Bane in the Moonshaes (see FA1, Halls of the High King) to his worship.
  Xvim is becoming increasingly cunning, working hard to steal worshippers
  from Cyric who formerly worshipped Bane and/or Bhaal.

  It is believed that Xvim has allied/mated himself with Loviatar. Some speak
  of
  a baatezu of unholy power (something like a LE cambion) that has arisen from
  this evil union who leads Xvim's clergy in the Realms.

  Xvim is actively seeking to wrap the mantle of the Red Wizards Fire Cult
  around his godhood giving him greater influence over that land. He is
  also seeking to subvert the followers of the Earthmother and Grond
  Peaksmasher
  in the Moonshae Isles. Finally Xvim is seeking to bring the goblinoids of
  the Stonelands to his banner to create a great horde to sweep down on
  the Heartlands (Dalelands, Cormyr, and Sembia).

  Xvim's Priests

  Xvim has few priests of any type in the Realms, but the few he does have
  represent a fivefold increase from before the Avatar Crisis. As a result,
  roughly 80% his clergy are specialty priests. The remainder of his clergy are
  clerics and devout warriors. Xvim's priests are expected to exult in savage
  destruction, and cause as much mayhem as possible.

  REQUIREMENTS: AB Con 13*; AL LE; WP any (scimitar 1rst); AR any; RA skin of
  some reptilian creature died brown-black; SP All, Combat, Healing (rev)*,
  Necromantic*, Sun(rev)*, War; SPL nil; PW 1) allowed to specialize, as a
  warrior,  in the scimitar, 1) able to use magical items normally usable only
  by
  warriors,  3) darkness 1/day (P1); TU turn; QS possible quest spells include
  storm of vengeance or warband quest, although Xvim has only recently acquired
  the power to grant such spells.


  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --




  Note On Faiths

  In my wanderings of the Realms it has come to my notice
  that most of the different faiths currently popular have a
  myriad of titles for their priests of respective powers. Although
  most faiths seem not to differentiate in title between the
  Clerics and Priests in their number, most have a special title
  for the leader of the faith in any given area. I present here a
  woefully incomplete list and any notes that other wanderers
  may have taken would be appreciated.


  Helm :      High Guardian (P11)
              Vigilant Master (P13)
              Priest of the Hall

  Tyr :       Reverand Judge (P10)
              Prior (P8) (Note: Person in question was the assiatant of
                  a Reverand Judge.)
              Lord High Justicar (P12)

  Tymora :    High Priestess (P10)
              Luckpriestess (P9)
              Perceptress (P8)
              Reverand Sister (P11)

  Oghma :     Chief Priest (P9, P11) (and leader of the faith.)
              Elder Reader (P14) (actually assiatant to the above!)
              First Singer (B7)
              Learned Father (P12, P8, P13)

  Lathander : Mornmaster (P15)
              High Dawnlord (P10)
              High Priestess (P12)
              Morninglord (P13)

  Mielikki :  Ladyservant (P15)


  Milil :     Songmaster (P14)

  Mystra :    Magister (W17) (note class. Was leader of faith)
              Priestess (P7)

  Selune :    High Moonmistress (P18)

  Silvanus :  Oakfather (P9)

  Denier :    Headmaster (no level given)
              Dean (leader of faith)

  Chauntea :  High Harvestmistress (P9)
              High Mother (P14)
              Reverand Brother (P13)

  Tempus :    Battle Chaplain (P10, P7)
              Priest General (P13)

  Gond :      Lord High Smith and Artificer (P9)


  Taken from the notebook of Luthal Quovar of Silverymoon. Collated
  from the works of Volothamp Geddarn, Elminster of Shadowdale, and
  Ed`o`the Greenwood.


  Brock       djbrockl@rs.dundee.ac.uk
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------



  From: boyd@bagabolts.eecs.umich.edu (Eric L. Boyd)

                          Spheres for Realms Gods



          This listed was given as an UNOFFICIAL list in a recent Sage Advice
  column, and appears without permission.

  DEITY         MAJOR                       MINOR
  ==================================================================
  Auril           Time                            Wards
  Azuth           Thought                         Law
  Beshaba         Chaos                           Time
  Chauntea        Time, Wards                     Travelers
  Cyric           War, Time                       Numbers
  Denier          Thought                         Time
  Eldath          Wards                           Travelers
  Gond            Numbers                         Wards
  Helm            Wards                           War
  Ilmater         Law                             Wards
  Lathander       Thought                         Time
  Leira           Time                            Chaos
  Lliira          -                               Thought, Time, Travlers
  Loviatar        Law                             Time
  Malar           War                             Travelers
  Mask            Time                            Thought
  Mielikki        -                               Time, Travelers
  Milil           Thought                         Travelers
  Mystra          Thought                         Time
  Oghma           Travelers                       Thought, Wards
  Selune          Travelers, Numbers              -
  Shar            Time, Thought                   -
  Silvanus        Time, Wards                     Travelers
  Sune
  Talona          Chaos                           -
  Talos           Chaos, War                      Time
  Tempus          Chaos, War                      Wards
  Torm            Law                             Travelers
  Tymora          Chaos                           Wards
  Tyr             as cleric                       as cleric
  Umberlee        Chaos                           -
  Waukeen         Travelers                       Wards
  Elemental Cults -                               Time
  Bane            Law, War                        Numbers
  Bhaal           Law                             Time
  Myrkul          Chaos, Time                     War

  Clerics         Law or Chaos (neutrals choose)  Travelers, War

  Sune was omitted, and appeared in a later column, which I do not have handy.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --




  List of Herbs
  And Where They Can Be Found

  BY: Jack Vidulich  vidulj@rpi.edu

  ADDER'S TONGUE
  Location:  Moist meadows, shady clearings (late spring)
  Uses:  Leaf Tea:  heals 1d3 hp/day (drink 3/day)
  Ointment:  immediately heals 1d2 hp (usable 1/day)

  BIRTHWORT
  Location:  Hedges, fences, sunny thickets (mid-summer)
  Uses:  Juice:  +2 on poison saves if applied with 1 round
  Poultice:  +1 hp/day for 2 days

  COMFREY
  Location:  ditches, watersheds, moist fields (mid, late summer)
  Uses:  Root:  heals 1d4 hp when applied to a wound
  Tea:  same as Adder's Tongue

  GARLIC
  Location:  damp meadows, sparse forests (spring-fall)
  Uses:  Juice:  antiseptic, heals 2 hp/day for 3 days
  insect repellent, 50% chance

  HERB TRUE-LOVE
  Location:  woods (mid, late spring)
  Uses:  Leaves:  antiseptic, heals 1hp/wound
  Berries:  +2 on posion saves if eaten with 2 rounds
  +3 for dwarves and halflings

  JUNIPER BERRY
  Location:  sparse evergreen forests (any)
  Uses:  Berries:  stimulant, heals 1d4hp if brought below 0
  antidote, +1 on poison saves if eaten within 2 rounds
  acts as a powerful aphrodesiac (sp?) in elves and half elves (save vs
  poison or fall in lust with the first person of the opposite sex they see)

  SPHAGNUM MOSS
  Location:  swamps, bogs (any)
  Uses:  Dressing:  heals 25% faster

  WOUNDWORT
  Location:  ditches, fields, marshes (mid-summer)
  Uses:  Dressing/Poultice:  regain 20% of damage if applied within
  2 rounds.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -


  From: jeff@lonex.rl.af.mil (Jeffrey C. Isherwood)
  ====================================================================
  ============
  Type               Properties                Game Effect
  Cost/dose

  Abaas              Healing                    1-2 hp                   1 gp
  Adder's tongue     Healing                    1-4 hp                  10 gp
  Agrimony           Cures blood diseases                               3  sp
  Alkanet            Poison antidote            +1save w/in 1 round     5  sp
  All-Heal           increases healing draughts +25% effectivness       10 gp
  Amaranth           Stops hemorrhaging         clots bleeding          5  sp
  Anemone            Cures eye disorder         20% cure clouded eyes   3  sp
  Angelica           Cures lung disorders                               3  sp
  Asarabaca          Cures violent tendencies   mild opiate             5  sp
  Asparagus          Cures paralysis            +1save w/in 1 round     1  sp
  Awn                Anti-inflamitory (joints)  reduces aches in joints 3  cp
  Balm               Antidote for depression                            1  sp
  Baranie            Reduces Nausea             May prevent seasickness 1  sp
  Barberry           Cures BURNS                heal double rate        2  sp
  Basil              Draws poison               -25% dmge of the poison 2  sp
  Belladonna         Cure Lycanthrpy(poison)    20%cure (1%death/dose)  5  gp
  Bindwood           Eases pain                                         1  sp
  Bishop's weed      Cures apathy               increased energy        5  sp
  Bitter sweet       Removes minor curses       25% (mostly selfinduced)5  gp
  Borate             Removes fear               20% w/in 1 round        5  gp
  Bryony             Healing                    1-2 hp                  5  sp
  Calamint           Cures mental disorders     10% cure insanity       10 gp
  Caranan            Healing/pain reliever      1-4 hp                  3  gp
  Carefree Mustard   Heals Concussions          -25% concussion effects 10 gp
  Carneyar           Coagulator                 Stops bleeding Imediate 15 gp
  Coriander          Cures disease              +5%/ day of use         4  sp
  Daffodil           Healing                    1 hp                    3  sp
  Doilan buds        Nurishment                 5 buds = 1 meal         6  gp
  Elendil's Basket   Purify H2O, slow poison    Purify 1pt, + 6 hour
  survive poison          8  gp
  Eyebright          Cures blindness            10% cure blindness      2  sp
  Fiis flower        Healing                    1-6 hp                  13 gp
  Flax-Weed          Cures skin irritations     prevents itching        1  sp
  Fumitory           Cures melancholia          focus mind              5  sp
  Germander          Relieves pain                                      5  sp
  Gladwyn            Cures paralysis            gives extra save (no +) 4  gp
  Grarig             Potent Healing Herb        2-20 hp                 60 gp
  Groundsel(mtn)     Relieves pain                                      1  gp
  Garlic             Antiseptic, insect repelnt (+ to attract maonsters)6  cp
  Harlindar          Assures save childbirth                            5  sp
  Hellebore          Cures love sickness        gives new save vs charm 2  sp
  Himrose            Relieves inflammation                              6  sp
  Hyssop             Anti-parasitic             Drive parasites away    5  gp
  Klandum            Removes Paralysis          Get extra save          20 gp
  Klynyk             Depillitory                Removes hair 1-6 days   5  sp
  Lavender           Restores speech            sooths ragged voices    1  gp
  Maiana             Decongestant                                       2  cp
  Maragath           Anaesthetic (local)        Numb 1 area for 1-4 hrs 3  sp
  Moonwort           Heals bruises,broken bones X2 healing (1d6 days)   1  gp
  Nelthadon          Emetic (induces Vomiting)  new save vs ingesteds   1  sp
  Peony              Cures insanity             15% cure(5%/day addict) 12 gp
  Periwinkle         Promotes happiness                                 3  sp
  Plantain           Relieves skin irritations  eases itching           1  sp
  Rampion            Relieves fever                                     2  sp
  Red Willow         Breaks Fever               Break Fever w/in 1 day  5  sp
  Rose               Cures eye disorders        1% cure Blindess        1  sp
  Rosemary           Promotes healing           1-3 hp                  3  sp
  Rumareth           Coagulant/sedative         stp bleeding (sleep 8hr)7  sp
  Sage               Restores memory            +2 int check (memory)   2  sp
  Self-Heal          Promotes healing           1-6 hp                  15 gp
  Sindoluin          Anti-coagulant             Bleed +1hp/minute       10 gp
  Shepherd's Purse   Heals burns                heal 1-4 hp (burns)     3  sp
  St. John's Moss    Heals burns                heal 1-3hp (1-4 days)   12 sp
  Tamarisk           Poison antidote            extra sv (w/in 5 rnds)  10 gp
  Tharm              Protection vs Sun          Tan, prevent sun-blister2  sp
  Thistle            Poison antidote            +2 save (w/in 2 rnds    4  gp
  Thyme              Anti-parasitic             +1 save vs infestation  3  sp
  Trefoil            Antidote for insect bites  reduce swelling/itching 6  sp
  Whortle            Relieves fever                                     3  sp
  Wormwood           Anti-parasitic             gives 2 saves vs parast 7  sp
  Yarrow             Mild sedative              sv poison @ +3 or sleep 2  gp

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

  New Magic Items


  Long Sword +2 Lightning Brand

  When drawn and the command word is spoken, this sword is
  charged with electrical energy.  this will cause the sword  to glow
  with a golden tint and give off  light in a 5' radius.  This charge
  will give an additional d4 points of electrical damage.

  Once a day, if the command word is known( a different one
  from the first), it can store up electrical energy and then send out
  a 4d6 blast of electrical energy.  The storing up of the energy takes
  1 round  in which the sword can not be used.  if it is used while
  charging the blast for that day is used up.   After the sword is
  charged the blast must be given off within one turn or the wielder of
  the sword  will take the damage and the electrical powers of the
  sword will not function for a week.  While the sword is charged it
  has a bright golden glow and will give off light as a light spell
  will.  This "Lighting Bolt" can only hit one person and it will not
  miss.
  This sword hits as a normal plus 2 sword when striking at non
  metal armor.  When striking at metal armor,  figure as AC 10 with
  normal dex and magic bonuses applying for the electrical shock.  use
  their normal ac for sword damage (i.e.  a person in plate +1 with a
  +1 dex will be AC8 for electrical damage and probably around ac0 or
  -1 for sword damage).  When using nonmetal armor, figure ac normally
  for electrical damage.
  This sword normally has a Ivory handle and the blade has a
  golden tint.
  ---From: Jon Drnek <drnek@beech.csis.gvsu.edu>


  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ---------


  MISTLEDALE;  & DEEPINGDALE ;  [What happens there?]

  The only thing I found was in the novel Spellfire, and in the Forgotten
  Realms Atlas: there is a very
  well known Inn in Highmoon (the capital of Deepingdale). It is called "The
  RisingMoon'" and it is
  owned by an exadventurer, the warrior Gorstag. It is detailed in the
  Atlas, page 106.

  It stands just north of the East Way (that runs between Cormyr and
  Ordulin),
  half a mile west of the
  inner town, and close to Glaemril, the Deeping Stream. It is a very good
  place to put your PCs to
  rest for some ti me.

  I have not found any reference about Temples in the region but I would
  assume
  that it is safe for you
  to place some shrines to the Gods that have a good penetration in the Dales
  (like Tymora, Lathander
  and Chauntea). It is very safe to assume that Deepingdale also has shrines
  to
  some Elven Gods
  (probably in Highmoon), as there is a good amount of elves and half-elves
  that consider the Dale
  their home. I would even put there a temple to Corellon Larethian; Solonor
  Thelandira and Rilifane
  Ralathil are also good choices.

  If you haven't noted, there is a sage in Deepingdale that dwells in a small
  ornated stone tower, and is
  very much known of the local adventurers from whom he buys books and other
  things of magic.
  (His name is Rhauntides, and he is detailed in DM's Sourcebook of the
  Realms,
  page 30). Also
  another powerful NPC of Highmoon is Azargatha Nimune (same Sourcebook, page
  18), a Harper
  mage, follower of Mystra and Mielikki, that has many contacts with Rangers
  and other Hapers and
  Harper allies.

  I haven't any guesses about Mistledale, though. As it is portrayed as a
  quiet
  agricultural community,
  I would put a Temple to Chauntea near Ashabenford (maybe it could be a
  medium-sized temple,
  with several farms around it). Trade is also very important because of the
  road from Tilverton to
  Hillsfar, so some good-sized inns can be put there. Another thing you could
  safely do is to put some
  quarters of one of the Trading Companies of the Realms in Ashabenford (as
  its
  main councilor, and
  leader of the famous Riders, Haresk rlalorn, is a wise merchant). The
  Thousandheads Trading
  Coster, for example, could be using Ashabenford as an alternative route to
  Hillsfar, as they want to
  minimize the riskes of the route through Essembra

  There are two great NPCs in Mistledale that you can put in the way of your
  PCs: Nethmurta
  (Sourcebook, page 28) who runs the tavern "The Blinking Owl" in
  Ashabenford,
  and Emperel
  (Sourcebook, page 21), a noble from Cormyr, that has some a very
  interesting destiny to fulfill.


  About the Doomasters of Beshaba; I can't say much either, except that they
  are probably the most
  ardent of Tymora's faith and clerics' enemies. (And that could lead to some
  pretty good ideas for a
  save-the-good-temple adventures... or the mysterious ill luck that
  everybody
  in town is suffering
  since...)

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -------

  NEW SPELLS

  From: bknox@DIALix.oz.au (Brendan Knox)


  Singing Cockroach  (Alteration)
  Level:  6
  Components: S, M
  Duration:  12t + 1t/level

Due to its size, this text item will be continued in the next text item.

------------------------------ Start of body part 4

  Casting Time: 1 Round
  Area effect: 400 sq feet/level
  Saving throw: Special

  The ulitimate seige breaker...  When the caster casts this spell on a
  roach, it works it's way into the enemies camp.   Once in the camp, the
  roach finds a nice place and starts to sing, REALLY bad.   All within
  must a save vs spell or leave camp and go home.  If the make the saving
  throw, must make one each turn with a culimative -1 to the roll.


  Gifrun's Thunderclap(Evocation)

  Level:          5               Casting Time:   3
  Range:          4" + 1"/level   Components:     V,S,M
  Duration:       Instantaneous   Saving Throw:   1/2
  Area of Effect: 4" sphere
  Explanation/Description:

  This spell opens a small gate to the quasi-elemental plane of Vacuum.
  Within the area of effect, all the air is suddenly eliminated.  This does
  not last long enough to cause asyphixiation, but the resulting rushing of
  air into the area causes 1d6 damage per level of the caster (up to a
  maximum of 10d6), regardless of whether or not the victim(s) require air
  (even undead are affected).  The rushing air also causes a massive roar,
  like a clap of thunder, which will deafen victims for 1-10 rounds.

  A saving throw is allowed; if successful, reduce damage to half, and the
  victim is only deafened for 1 round.

  The material component for this spell is a small lodestone, encased in a
  legume.



  Furball (Evocation/Alteration)
  Level 2
  Range          : 10 yards + 10 yards/level
  Components     : V,S,M (fur)
  Duration       : 1 round / level
  Casting Time   : 3
  Area of Effect : 20-foot radius
  Saving Throw   : Neg.

  Supposedly designed by a wizard by the name of Rakmos Shearlight for
  his friend's wool business, this spell causes fur or hair on any
  living creature to grow at a rate of 1 inch per round.  It even
  effects creatures that do not normally have fur/hair (eg. furry
  alligator anyone?).

  A saving throw is allowed and those that successfully save will not be
  affected by the fur/hair growth.  Otherwise, the fur/hair will
  continue for the duration of the spell.  The fur/hair will remain even
  after the spell's duration expires and it is not magical.  A Dispel
  Magic will only halt the fur/hair growth.  Partial areas of large
  creatures have been known to be affected by this spell (eg. face of
  the red dragon, Scorch).

  In it self, this spell is relatively harmless.  The effects on the
  other hand can be quite interesting.  Tight armor has been known to
  break and fall off, the fur/hair catching fire (since it is
  flammable), extra insulation in cold climate, instant fur for Lighting
  Bolt spell, etc...


  From: "nathan sugioka" <nsugioka@cs.indiana.edu>

  Fire Dart
  School: Invocation/evocation (elem. fire)
  Level: 2
  Components: V,S
  Range: 10 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 2
  Duration: Instantaneous
  Area of effect: Special
  Saving throw: None

  Similar to Magic Missile, this spell produces one missile per 2 caster
  levels, rounded up, with a maximum of 5.  The difference is that these
  missiles are made of flame; thus, they CAN be directed against non-living
  targets, and also set any flammable materials they hit on fire.

  Lava Bolt
  School: Conjuration/summoning (elem. fire & earth)
  Level: 3
  Components: V,S,M
  Range: 10 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 3
  Duration: Instantaneous (see below)
  Area of effect: 1 creature or object
  Saving throw: None

  This spell conjures a bolt of molten lava which the caster throws as if he
  were a fighter of equal level (DEX bonuses apply).  If it hits a creature,
  it takes 3d6 impact damage plus 3d6 fire damage; unless the lava is
  somehow removed, the target will take another 3d6 each round, for 1 round
  for each 3 levels beyond 5th of the caster (1 extra round at 8th, 2 extra
  at
  11th...).
  The material component is a piece (at least 2 ounces) of pumice, volcanic
  glass, or other lava-based rock.

  Lava Wave
  School: Conjuration/summoning (elem. fire)
  Level: 4
  Components: V,S,M
  Range: 10 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 4
  Duration: Instantaneous (see below)
  Area of effect: 20 by 40 rectangle OR 30 by 30 square
  Saving throw: Special

  This spell is similar to Lava Wave except that it conjures a wave of
  molten lava over the given area.  All creatures within take 1d6/2 levels
  of the caster (rounded up; max. 6); unless a successful save is made, this
  damage will continue, at the rate of 3d6 per round, for 1 round per 3
  levels of
  the
  caster beyond 4th.  The material component is 4 ounces of volcanic rock,
  and
  an open flame of any kind (the flame is not extinguished in the casting).


  Elemental Join
  School: Alteration, Enchantment/charm (elem. fire, earth, air, or water)
  Level: 5
  Components: V,S
  Range: 5 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 1 round
  Duration: 1 turn/level
  Area of effect: 1 elemental
  Saving throw: Special

  With this spell, the wizard physically joins her body with an elemental.
  A saving throw is allowed only if the elemental is not one the wizard has
  conjured.  Once the wizard's body has joined with the elemental, the
  wizard can use all the abilities of the elemental's body as her own,
  including Hit Dice, THACO, damage, movement and invulnerability to
  nonmagic weapons. However, as the wizard's body and any equipment on it
  are transformed into the appropriate element and joined with the
  elemental's body, this
  equipment
  cannot be used in any way while inside the elemental's body.  The only
  spells
  that can be cast are those not requiring material components (those
  components are stuck inside the elemental's body), and even then the
  elemental must be able to speak (I don't think most can).

  The wizard may end the spell at any time.  The wizard's body appears
  anywhere
  within 10 feet of the elemental.  If the elemental is one the wizard has
  conjured, she may dismiss it at the same time; if not, the elemental is
  likely to be furious, so the wise wizard will be cautious.  Note that both
  caster and elemental will be confused and disoriented (no action) for 1
  round
  after the separation.  The maximum duration in any case is 1 turn per
  level of the caster.

  There are several important things to note about this spell.  First, if
  the elemental's body is slain with the wizard inside, the wizard dies.
  Second, if the spellcaster is attempting to take over an elemental
  conjured by another wizard, the elemental gets the save of its conjuring
  wizard OR its own (whichever is better); in either case, there is a +2
  bonus
  (representing
  the prior claim of control by the conjurer).  Third, the new body takes
  some
  getting used to; the caster is at -2 to hit for the first 2 strikes she
  takes
  against an opponent.
  Matthew's Hellfire
  School: Invocation/evocation (elem. fire)
  Level: 5
  Components: V,S,M
  Range: 5 yds/lvl
  Casting time: 5
  Duration: Instantaneous
  Area of effect: 1 creature
  Saving throw: Special

  This spell causes white-hot flames to appear around an opponent's body,
  causing (1d6+1) points of damage per level of the caster.  A saving throw
  for half damage is allowed, at a -2 penalty.  The material component is
  a small ruby, of at least 100 gp value.


  Darksight
  School: Alteration
  Level: 2
  Components: V,S
  Range: Touch
  Casting time: 2
  Duration: 5 rounds/caster level
  Area of effect: 1 creature
  Saving throw: None

  This spell allows the creature touched to see clearly in any form of
  darkness, magical or not.  It does not allow detection of invisible, out
  of phase, ethereal or astral creatures, nor does it compensate for any
  blindness
  due to natural or magical causes.

  Somaticize
  School: Alteration
  Level: 2
  Components: V
  Range: 0
  Casting time: 1
  Duration: Special
  Area of effect: Caster
  Saving throw: None

  With this spell, the caster may cast another spell without somatic
  components.  Somaticize is cast; the round afterwards, the other spell
  must be cast, or all benefits are lost.  This spell has obvious uses for a
  bound or otherwise restricted wizard.




  From: v062p74v@ubvms.cc.buffalo.edu (Brian A Weibel)


  Quiz's Interposing Shield (Conjuration/Summoning)

  Level:  2
  Range:  Caster Only
  Components:  V,S,M
  Duration:  Special
  Casting Time:  3 rounds
  Area of Effect:  Caster Only
  Saving Throw:  None

  This spell can only be used in conjunction with an Armor spell;
  the Armor spell is cast first and is immediately followed by
  casting this spell.
  Quiz's Shield performs in much the same way as the Armor spell.
  It is an invisible barrier the size of a medium shield.  The
  barrier acts as a medium shield and lowers the casters AC by 1 in
  regards to attacks that it can impose itself upon.  The caster does
  not need to concentrate in order to use the Shield.
  The Shield adds one "hit point" to the amount of damage that
  the Armor can take before being dispelled.  When the Armor has been
  dispelled, the Shield vanishes also.
  The material component for the spell is a medium sized metal shield.  It
  is consumed in the casting.
  This magic was developed by Quiz, practitioner of the art of
  illusion.  "Rumor has it that I often found myself too encumbered
  in combat to use anything other than party members for my shields.
  This did not fare well with certain people, so I created this
  spell."



  Quiz's Speedy Sprint (Alteration)

  Level:  2
  Range:  Caster only
  Components:  V,S,M
  Duration:  Special
  Casting Time:  1 turn
  Area of Effect:  Caster only
  Saving Throw:  None

  This spell allows a caster to store a burst of energy in a
  crystal worth 50 gp, the material component of this spell.  This
  crystal is consumed only upon use of the spell.  The caster must
  keep it with him until the spell is activated.
  When activated, the caster can increase his movement rate by
  6" for up to 1 round per level.  This spell must be used upon
  starting movement or while moving.  Premature destruction of the
  crystal results in an uncontrollable burst of speed.  The caster
  must make a DEX check at -4 to avoid tripping.  Those who trip
  are assumed to have moved a random distance (DM's discretion) and
  then fallen.  They are then stunned for the rest of the round.
  Note that any caster can only have one crystal at any given
  time.
  This spell was created by Quiz, practicioner of the art of
  illusion.  "Being a short-legged gnome, I found it quite
  necessary to find a method to overcome my reduced running
  speed.  One who runs today fights another day!"


  Valdor's Vindicating Ladder (Evocation)

  Level:  2
  Range:  60 yards + 10 yards/level
  Components:  V,S,M
  Duration:  Instantaneous
  Casting Time:  2
  Area of Effect:  1 creature
  Saving Throw:  Special

  This spell is used by a wizard who truly appreciates the many
  uses of one of man's greatest creations, the ladder. In this spell,
  a ladder of pure energy is emitted from the caster's fingertips.
  The ladder consists of as many rungs as the caster has levels. When
  the ladder hits the target, the rungs progressively burst on the
  target for 1d4 points of damage per rung, to a maximum of 10d4.  A
  successful saving throw indicates the target has managed to dodge
  some part of the ladder, and damage is reduced to 1 point/rung.
  The material component of the spell is a one inch diameter by
  1/2 inch thick section of a ladder rung.  On one side is written
  "Spell Use Only--Evocation Department".  On the other is a large
  "V" with the letters "I.G.A.F." below it.


  Xaviar's Leaf Filter (Alteration, Divination)

  Level:  2
  Range:  0
  Components:  V, S
  Duration:  1 round/level
  Casting Time:  2
  Area of Effect:  Caster
  Saving Throw:  Special

  The casting of this spell allows the mage to filter any leaves
  out of his vision for the spells duration.  The leaves are treated
  as if they weren't present only for vision purposes.  Spells that
  require a line of sight will work for the caster.
  This spell was developed after one too many forest ambushes.
  Note that it will not detect invisible creatures, only those using
  natural cover.


  Quiz's Deathbow (Conjuration/Summoning)

  Level:  3
  Range:  Special
  Components:  V, S, M
  Duration:  Special
  Casting Time:  3
  Area of Effect:  Special
  Saving Throw:  1/2

  At the completion of casting, a magical short bow is created in
  the spell caster's hand.  This bow allows the wizard to use it as
  if he were a fighter of the same level, proficient in short bow.
  The wizard also gains any DEX missile attack adjustments.  The bow
  itself has a +1 to hit.  It damage varies on the amount that you
  pull the string back.  Maximum damage is equal to d6/level.
  Different combinations of arrows can be created.  Two arrows per
  round can be fired, as long as the maximum damage has not yet been
  met.  For example, if the caster is of eighth level, he can fire
  eight 1d6 arrows over the course of 4 rounds minimum, a single 8d6
  arrow, or any combination between the two.  The bow remains in the
  caster's hand until all of the magical energy is used up, to a
  maximum of 1 round/level; until the caster decides to cast another
  spell; or until the caster is hit with a successful Dispel Magic.
  At the completion of the spell, the bow vanishes.  The range of the
  bow is 5/10/15.
  The material component for the bow is a miniature gold short
  bow of great artistry worth at least 1,000 gp.  For every d6 of
  damage fired from the Deathbow, the material component drops in
  value by 5 gp.  Note that this is FIRED damage, not POTENTIAL
  damage.  If the caster can fire 8d6 worth of arrows, but chooses to
  use only 4d6, the gold bow decreases by 20 gp.


  Quiz's Nullifying Magic (Illusion/Phantasm)

  Level:  3
  Range:  30 yards + 10 yards/level
  Components:  V, S
  Duration:  1 round/level
  Casting Time:  3
  Area of Effect:  1 magic using creature
  Saving Throw:  Special

  When this spell is cast, the wizard creates the illusion of one
  of the most fearsome things imaginable to the victim, simply by
  forming the fears of the victim's subconscious mind into something
  that his conscious mind can visualize.  In this case, the fear is
  that the victim can no longer cast spells.
  The only defense against Quiz's Nullifying Magic is an attempt
  to disbelieve, which can be tried as many times as desired.  To
  disbelieve the phantasm, the subject *must specifically state that
  he is making the attempt* and then roll a saving throw vs. spell.
  For each attempt of a saving throw after the first there is a -1
  to the roll.  For example, attempting a fourth saving throw would
  have a -3 penalty to the dice roll.



  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----

  INDEX


  Border Forest. 6
  Dagger Falls 4, 5
  Dagger Hills 6, 10
  Daggerdale 3, 5
  DEEPINGDALE 28
  Desertmouth Mountains 5, 7, 13
  Doom of Daggerdale 3
  Doomasters of Beshaba 29
  Eastgate Keep 12
  Faiths 21
  Herbs 24
  Iyachtu Xvim 20
  Magic Items 27
  Mines of 11, 12
  Mines of Tethyamir 14
  MISTLEDALE 28
  NPCs 7
  River Tesh 5
  SPELLS 30
  Spheres for Realms Gods 23
  Underdark 7, 13
  Xvim 18
  Zhentarim 3, 6, 10

------------------------------ End of body part 4


