
------------------------------ Start of body part 1

  Forgotten Realms Notebook

  volume 2


  Zhentarim                    1
  Stronghold of the Nine.      2
  Magic Items                  5
  Non-Player Characters        10
  More Rumors                  17
  Wishes                       19
  Highmoon                     34
  INDEX                        38



  Zhentarim; Sources

  Cc: boyd@eecs.umich.edu

           As far as "Crypt of the Shadowking" goes, you should finish the book
  before leaping to conclusions about who rules Irieabor. :) Some rough notes
  on the two major characters of this novel are given in FOR4, Code of the
  Harpers, along with the main characters of most of the other Harper novels
  published to date.

             In general, the activities of the Zhentarim are detailed in a wide
  variety of sources. Here are some places and the source of the material.

  SOURCE               PLACE
  =====================================================================
  ========
  Moonsea             Everwinking Eye column of Polyhedron (~last 30 issues)
  Yulash              FRC2, Curse of the Azure Bonds
  Voonlar             FRC1, Pool of Radiance, and FA1, Halls of the High King
  Scardale            FRE2, Tantras and the novel "Tantras"
  Shadowdale          FRE1, Shadowdale and the novel "Shadowdale"
  Daggerdale          FRQ3, Doom of Daggerdale (town of Dagger Falls actually)
  Anauroch            FR13, Anauroch and "The Parched Sea" novel
  Stonelands          FRQ1, Haunted Halls of Eveningstar (tangentially only)
  Darkhold            Castles boxed set
  Irieabor            "Crypt of the Shadowking" novel
  Lonely Moor         REF5, Lords of Darkness (tangentially, the zombie module)
  Savage Frontier     FR5, The Savage Frontier (i.e. Llorkh, Secomber)

          The novel "Spellfire" and the novel "Crusade"  discuss the activities
  of characters from Zhentil Keep. The Zhentarim have their mitts in Myth
  Drannor
  too.

  Stronghold of the Nine.


    First of all, let me say to you that if you are exploring the High Forest
  with your PCs you simply MUST have the module FR5, "Savage Frontier", that is
  shock full of nice things and ideas for adventures there ! The adventure
  ideas demand some work, but if you are DMs in the Realms you are probably
  used to that ;-)).

    About the Stronghold : the first thing to know is what is the current year
  in your campaign. Why ? Because things in the Stronghold happened in 3
  different periods :

    a) During their adventures (probably before 1356 DR) the Nine, which were
  one of the most famous and powerful adventuring companies of the North, led
  by the Archmage Laeral (one of the Seven Sisters), found the former dwarfhold
  and rebuilt it. After they retired they made it their home. At this time, the
  Stronghold is known to have "strange and powerful magical guardians
  (including nagas and golems)". (See FR1, page 10). We also have the
  information that the Nine stored much of their gained treasure in the
  Stronghold, and that none of them were less than 14th level.

    b) Their treasure was their downfall. Probably sometime between 1356 and
  1358 DR the disagreement over The Crown of Horns, an artifact in Laeral's
  possession led to internal disputes and open war, with the Stronghold as the
  battlefield! In FR5, page 52 we see that now the Nine are only Five and the
  Stronghold is in turmoil. The above ground buildings are abandoned and in
  poor repair. The large underground complex is ill-defended and in constant
  warfare, as the 3 different factions of the remaining Five (helped by their
  followers - probably henchmen - and probably also by many strange summoned
  creatures), battle over the control of the evil Crown. It is said that the
  Five include a figther, a cleric, two mages and one thief (none of them below
  15th level). One of the mages is Laeral, who is very changed from her former
  self (see FR5, page 58). Her mind warped by the crown, she is completely mad,
  and her age is catching fast, probably due to the failure of the magicks of
  longevity (remember, Laeral, as the other Seven Sisters is about 150 years
  old). Visitors to the Stronghold at this time are treated like intruders by
  her and her ex-comrades.


    c) Their rescuers were Khelben; and Alustriel;. The Blackstaff; in person
  destroyed the Crown of Horns; and liberated Laeral from its influence. They
  developed a strong bond and she became his consort. This probably happens
  sometime between 1358 DR and 1360 DR. (See Dragon #181, page 18, and
  "Running the Realms", in the New Boxed Set). After that Laeral; created a
  Simlacrum; of herself and left it at the Stronghold to deceive treasure-
  seekers. It is not known if any of the other four remanescents of the Nine
  survived, but I would say that more could have died. Even if some of them
  survived (besides Laeral), I would say that they would probably do the same
  that Laeral did and travel away from the bad memories of their time in the
  Stronghold. Laeral probably does not appear in the Stronghold, as all
  references to her say that she is either in Waterdeep with Khelben, or in
  Skullport with "Kitten" investigating things, or in Evermeet with her sister
  Dove;. (See Dragon #167 and #172 about Undermountain and Skullport, and the
  references in the novel "Elfshadow" - that happens in 1361 DR - about her
  staying sometime in Evermeet).


    In my campaign I did this:

    - period (a) (The Nine in control of the Stronghold after their retirement)
      -> between 1355 and 1357

    - period (b) (The Nine fight each other over the Crown of Horns)
      -> 1358

    - period (c) (Khelben destroys Crown, Laeral leaves the Stronghold)
      -> 1359



    As for the actual floor plans of the Stronghold, I myself will not need
  that, as the PCs in my campaign are only looking for Laeral to give her a
  message, but I would say that the Stronghold's area must be pretty large,
  and it would have great walls and many underground areas, as would be tipical
  of a dwarven fortress. If any of you would really like to do a prolongued
  indoor tour, I would advise browsing old Dungeon magazines for ideas and
  maps of this type of things.

    As a last idea, remember that, from period (c) onward, although Laeral
  is not there, her Simulacrum; is and it (she), is a conscious and living
  being, with 40% to 65% of the knowledge and personality of the original
  being. She also could be reasonably powerful (5th level to 12th level magic
  user), and probably considers the Stronghold HER house (as she was given the
  order to live here and protect the place by her creator). She will also
  possibly have the command over whatever guardian creatures (like golems)
  that still inhabit the place. She will be pysically identical to Laeral,
  but her personality could be different (for instance not being so gentle
  as Laeral, or not worrying much about the world at large... ;-)


    As always, comments are welcomed ! Oh, and give us all some inkling as to
  what recent adventures in High Forest and the North you are inflicting, er...
  presenting to your players ;-D


    Swords high friends,

    Aguinaldo Rangel                              <ag@ax.ibase.br>
    <<< "Me, a Harper? My dear girl, that jest would inspire much mirth in
         some circles..."

        Danilo Thann, famous Waterdhavian dandy and most notoriously inept
        mage. Year of the Maidens (1361 DR) >>>


  Magic Items
  FROSTWEAVER

  Forgotten Realms Item:

  HISTORY: A mysterious item that first appeared in the realms
  during the Glory years of rlyth Drannor. Legend recalls the
  heroics of one Yavel of the Zordiastical Ecclipt, an elfin fighter
  with great knowledge of Art. His deeds included the slaying of
  the evil and cruel Eye Tyrant, Garstan while battling against the
  Legions of Aranox, The Lich-Lord. During his crusade to rid the
  world of Aranox and his Legions, Yavel came across a lone
  building. Although a sole building is not very peculiar, but when
  one finds a lonebuilding in the middle of the forest Inside Yavel
  met the
        Ice maiden, Sirana FrostWeaver. She tested him greatly. Yavel
        had to pass Five Tests. The first tested his Skill. The Second
        tested his Passion. The Third tested his mind. The Fourth tested
        his Loyalty to his cause. The Fifth and Final Test made him question
        his Worth. Only by passing each of the five tests was Yavel deemed
        worthy by the Ice Maiden to Wield the Glove of her Goddess. Yavel
        wielded this glove, and bravely fought against Aranox and his
        minions. With FrostWeaver, Yavel brought down the Evil Force, and
        restored peace to the forests of myth Drannor. Legend also speaks
        of another glove that Yavel later found while traveling the plane
        of Fire. Rumor claims that when both gloves are brought together,
        Great Art will flow from he who dons them.

  DESCRIPTION: FrostWeaver is a metal gauntlet made of a electrum. Its blue
  shimmer comes into existance the moment the glove is worn. It is
  impossible to shield the shimmer from sight, unless the entire hand is
  concealed.


  POWERS: +4 Glove of Frost

  -- enables the wearer to create a surge of power that will flow from
  within the glove through one weapon of choice. All powers listed
  below seem to come from the chosen weapon and cannot be called
  upon unless the weapon is wielded.

          FrostBite       4/day   adds 3d6 Frostdamge to one attack.
                          6d6 vs. Fire-Users. No Save but only
                          works if the attack is successful.

          Cone of Cold    2/day   lOd4 + 10 Frostdamage [ 10' x 5' ray
                          in a 90' range

          Wall of Ice     2/day   as per spell

          Ice to Water    l/round effects up to 50' feet cube area

          Water to Ice    l/round effects up to 50' feet cube area

  Adds a +4 enchantment to one weapon of choice. This weapon cannot
  be greater than +6 once the enchantment is made. Even if a +5
  sword is the chosen weapon, the glove will only increase it to +6.
  This Weapon will do Double Damage vs Fire using Creatures. I.E. this
  weapon will affect Elementals, Efretti, Fire Specialist, etc. It WILL
  NOT affect creatures that use fire for other purposes, such as men,
  elves, and other humanoids whose control over fire is limited.


  FLAMEDANCER

  DESCRI PTION: FlameDancer is made from a Gold Metal, some say the scales from
  a gold
  dragon. Its appearance is like that of FrostWeaver, for FlameDancer is the
  sister glove
  of FrostWeaver.



  POWERS:


         FireSpear       2/day              6d6 FlameDamage [1' x 90']

         FireShield      4/day              as per spell  12th level of Power

         Wall of Fire    2/day              as per spell  12th level of Power

         Fire Travel     at will            may travel from different sources
  of
                                            Fire no smaller than a campfire.

         Flame Weapon    for 80 turns       adds ld4 flame Damage
                                            4d4 vs Cold Users & Undead

  Adds a +4 enchantment to one chosen weapon. Double Damage vs Cold Using
  creatures.
  Same Restrictions as FrostWeaver. Usable Once per Lifetime.





  COMBINED POWERS OF FROSTWEAVER AND FLAMEDANCER:

  -- Frost and Fire Resistance -- Immunity to powers of the glove --50% Magic
  Resistance to Fire & Cold
  Based r1agic -- Shape Power this allows the user to shape any cold or fire
  form to their own liking. This
  allows for campfires to become images of people,to Blocks of Ice becoming a
  giant fist.


  1 ) Bolt; +5; Rod of Lightning

  INT 21 (LG)   Ego 35     Melee Damage: 2d8 + 5

  Special Purpose: Destroy Chaotic Evil elves, half-elves, or humans with a
                            Disintigration Bolt -- Save vs death or die. If
  save is made
                            then take 1Od8 damage( save vs spell for 1/2 )

  Powers:

      1. Lightning Bolt - 1Od6 10 times per day
  2. Change Color of Bolt twice per color per day
  A) Gold Bolt(Positive Energy) -- +2 per die damage vs negative plane
  creatures
  B) Blue Bolt -- shot into a normal cloud, can create an electrical storm
  which can be used to CAll Lightning by wielder of BOLT
  3. Hea 1 1 /day
  4. Teleport W/O error 2/day
  5. Resistance to Electricity
  6. BOLT energy shield 2/week -- drops AC to -10 and stops 80 pts of Blue
  Dragon
  Breath
  7. Thief Alarm -- Shocks anyone who attempts to steal it with 6d8 damage(no
  save)
      and it will Magic Mouth Get Your Hands off of me, you thief!"
  8. Detect Evi1 in 1O radius
  9. Detect Magic resistance, power of MR, and Level of Goodness i n 1 5' rad i
  us.


  2) StormBringer; +5 Two-Handed Sword Melee Dm: 2d6;3dlO +5

          -- Lightning Ball     6d6 damage     5/day
          -- Shape Lightning                   5/day
          -- Charge Blade       5d6 damage     5/day
          -- Heal                              l/day
          -- Summon Blue Dragon                l/week

  3) Talon; +4 LongBow Melee Damage: 3dl 0 + 4

  -- LongBow made of some sort of Bone. Has no string -- Manifests its own
  arrows, when the user simulates pulling a string -- Roll of 5 or greater than

  needed to hit lodges arrows -- 6 pts bleeding damage per round while arrows
  are
  lodged.

  4) Impact; Crossbow +5 Heavy Crossbow Melee Damage: 5d4 + 5 -- Fires Bolts of
   Impact-- save vs spell or be knocked unconscious by blow for 3d4 rounds --
  if save is
  made,stunned for one round -- can be fired four times per cocking. -- takes
  one round to
  cock if wielder has a STR of 15 or better.

  5) Silver's Black Armor; +6 PlateMail Armor Class: -3
      -- immunity to swords of sharpness
      -- fly      18 turns/day Movement class B
      -- Heal     1 /day


  6) Clout Fang; +3 Giant Club      Melee Damage: 2d8 +3: Special

  -- Immunity to all poisons, natural and magical, while wielded -- Clout Fang
  Poison I Death or 4dlO damage      2/day -- C 1 out F ang Po i son I I KO or
  2d8
  dam age        3/ day -- Poison damage inflicted on successful attack roll
  and is
  cumulative with weapon damage. -- Must be at least 6'3 and have at least a
  STR of 18 to wield




  Non-Player Characters

  The Company of Shadows

  T'Lorn Darkheart
  Human Male NE Necromancer 6th Level
  ST:9 DE:12 CO:13 IN:15 WI:18 CH:7

  As leader of this band he uses their skills to futher his search of the
  lost and hidden crypts/tombs of Faerun.  He is searching for lost
  necromatic lore and one day hopes to travel to Thay and try to become
  a member of the School of Necromancy.

  Suggested Magic Items:
  Grave Key (DRAGON, Dec 1993): If put into the ground over a burial site and
  turned, the occupant of the burial site is compelled to rise and be at the
  Key owners command.  It also opens crypts, tombs, coffins etc (but not if
  sealed magically).
  Staff of Skulls (MAGISTER): For 1 charge the staff holder can animate
  skeletons or can mend/reattach broken/severed limbs both living and dead
  (BUT DOES NOT RESTORE HIT POINTS LOST).
  Scarab of Protection (DMG): Protects for level draining attacks.
  Ring or Cloak of Protection.

  Suggested Spells
  Death Recall 2nd Level (Complete Wizard Handbook): Allows the caster to
  view the death of a creature if it has died within the last 24 hours.
  Cloak Undead 2nd Level (FR Adventures): Hides undead from detection and
  sight.
  Undead Mount 2nd Level (FR Adventures): Provides a means of transportation,
                                          although a dead one.

  Kantopolis of the Shadows
  Half-elven Male NE Thief 5th Level
  ST:16 DE:16 CO:15 IN:11 WI:12 CH:13

  Quick, quit assasin that will kill almost anyone for the right price.
  Possible an ex-member of the Thieves/Assasins Guild of Waterdeep.

  Suggested Items:
  Short Sword of Backstabbing +2: adds 4 levels to backstabbing damage mult.
  Dagger of Impaling: (? forgot to bring description) BOTH OF THESE ARE IN
                      THE COMPLETE THIEVES HANDBOOK
  Girdle of Lions: (Magister): Give wearer the ability to Speak w/ Felines,
                               -3/die on falling damage, +50% to move silent
                               and night vision (not in pitch black environ).
  Magical Leather Armor.


  Darius of Daggerdale
  Human Male LE Fighter (Wild Talent Psionic) 7th Level

  This man is very mysterious because the sword Elquillar gives him the
  ability to change his shape like a Hat of Disguise.  With the help of
  his psionic powers he is a very crafty foe who travels quickly to cross
  any foe.

  Psionics: 64 PSPs
  Probability Travel, Dimension Door, and Know Location

  Suggested Magic Items.
  Ring of Telekinesis.
  Ring of Jumping
  Boots of Speed
  Elquillar (Dragon 1992): This is a +1 weapon that can change shape into any
  bladed weapon from dagger to scimitar.  The wielder can shape change as if
  he had a Hat of Disguise.  Protects the wielder as a Ring of Mind Shielding
  (NOTE: does not effect Psionics) and any creature hit by this weapon who is
  not in his natural form is forced back into its natural form (NO SAVE)
  The sword has INT 12 and EGO 16 (I believe)

  D'Tarnak Strongarm
  Half-orc Male LE Fighter/Cleric of Sharn (Mistress of Night)  5th/5th level
  ST:18/74 DE:12 CO:16 IN:9 WI:17 CH:11

  As follower of Sharn D'Tarnak is a lurker of the night, bringing in as
  many sacrifices that his mace can provide.  Sharn is quite proud of this
  backwater Half-orc, for he has brought the fear of the night to many a
  Dalelands village, all in the name of Sharn.

  Suggested Items:
  Mace of Darkness (Halls of the High King): LE Weapon that is +2 to hit and
  damage.  It does 1d8 to all size of creature.  At will the user can create
  Darkness 15 foot radius for 1 to 2 rounds following (Duration determined by
  user when effect created).  The weapons snarls when it hits those of good
  alignment and will do 2-8 points of damage to any not of LE alignment who
  tries to pick it up.

  contributed by:
  Sir Kirkland       knorthrup@vnet.ibm.com


  CHARACTER NAME: Talen the Thief
  ALIGN: NE       RACE: Human CLASS: Thief
  LEVEL: 2        WORLD, CITY: Forgotten Realms, Waterdeep



  ABILITIES:
  Str: 14 Dex: 18 Con: 16
  Int: 11 Wis: 12 Chr: 15

  ARMOR CLASS: 6 (due to dexterity)

  Hit Points: 11
  0

  WEAPON PROFICIENCIES:
  Dagger, Sling, Knife, Shortbow

  NON-WEAPON PROFICIENCIES: Alertness, Disguise, Forgery, Looting, Voice
  Mimicry, Tumbling, Tightrope Walking.

  THEIVING SKILLS:
  Pick Pockets: 67%
  Lock Picking: 57%
  Find/Remove Traps: 42%
  Move Silently: 33%
  Hide In Shadows: 32%
  Detect Noise: 36%
  Climb Walls: 84%
  Read Languages: -5%


  EQUIPMENT

  Backpack:                Clothing:
                           Bar maid's costume
   Map Case                Mens Clothing (Overalls, Plaid flannel shirt, boots,
   4 peices of blank
     Parchment             Dark Suit
  Wax Block                Soft Boots
  Lime Wood Strips         Black Gloves & Tunic
  30 rlarbles              Black Belt
  Biast Dice (bone)        Clerk/r1essenger costume
  6 Sling Bullets
















                                                                          Large
  Sack:
  Large Belt Pouch: (right side)                 Empty (used for jobs)
  Thieves Picks
  4 Sling Bullets                                Wrist Sheath (right hand)
  Sheathed Knife                                 Small knife

  Small Belt Pouch: (left side)                  Knife Sheath (each boot)
  Pouch of 12 Caltrops                          +2 Knife Of Throwing (right

Due to its size, this text item will be continued in the next text item.

------------------------------ Start of body part 2

  side)
  2 peices of chalk                             +2 Knife Of Wounding (left
  side)

  WEALTH
  45 Gold/Steel Peices
  13 Silver Peices
  1 1 Electrum Peices
  2 Copper Peices
  550 gp Rouges Stone (good luck stone, will not sell)

  DESCRIPTION
  Talen is average height for a woman 5 feet 4 inches but, only
  weighs in at 105 pounds. She is only 19, but her figure and
  manner can let her easily pass for 22 or 23 without any work.
  She has strikingly beautiful blue eyes adn the blond hair to
  match. This combination has led many a man to do her bidding,
  for less than a kiss.


  BACKGROUND
   Talen is a young woman of age 19, although she
  can pass for 40 if she wanted to. She grew up in a poorer section
  of town, and led of life of mischief when she was a child. At the
  age of 10 she hooked up with <Thief> from Water Deep and was
  raised by <him/her> until she was 17 and had to get off on her
  own. When Talen left Phlan she was not missed by her parents or
  the many siblings she had, for she spent very little time at home
  with her family and was right at home with thieves and bandits.
  While under the tutilage of <Thief> Talen learned the art of
  disguise and practiced everyday until she could even fool her
  teacher with enough preparation. Although she was not very
  strong ( 14) her nimbleness and dexterity ( 18) mader her the
  perfect Cat Burgler. Waterdeep gave her the perfect setting to
  practice her skill in leauge with the guild, which she had been a
  part of since the beqinning of her training. This is also the place
  in which she
  became proficient in the: Dagger, Sling, Knife, and Shortbow. The
  latter by far her favorite when ever possible. With her skills:
  Alertness, Disguise, Forgery, Looting, Voice r1imicry, Tumbling, and
  TightRope Walking, she became one of the most adept apprentice
  thieves in the guild. Although her devotion was to herself, she never
  let it show when around guild members. Her Charm and Charisma
  (15) was enough to charm them all. Although not very intelligent ( 1
  1 ) or wize ( 12) Talen is excellent at her job, she can, and does, use
  all of her skills to perfection to achieve her goals, whether for
  herself or the guild.

  Talen holds honor in hight regurd. She was taught honor by Kay the
  Bow master fo the guild. She spent many waking hours with him
  learning every aspect of her chosen weapon, the shortbow. (She
  probably also spent a few night s with him...playing cards...of
  course). From him she learned horor and the power of keeping your
  word. not only will she keep her word, but if not she has vowed, to
  herself, to devote the rest of her life to the person she breaks her
  vow to, that is unless they might happen to die, then the deal's off.



  STORY OF THE KNIVES: On one of the jobs for the guild, Talen was
  to rob the house of a local weaponsmith, the wealthiest in the
  section. On the job she found a wooden case lined with the fur of
  Asperii, Just the case itself was worth more than anything in the
  house. Quickly she and her searched the house and left without a
  sound. Teh next day word was out that the house was robbed and to
  very important items were stolen from the house. The weaponsmith
  was jailed in the dungeon and has yet to be let out. It seems that the
  two knives were intelligent. Each had their own special powers, but
  without each other they were useless. The knives have to be within
  100 yards of each other or their powers are null and void, until
  brought back within range.
  The first one Sharpe, it's called is a knife of throwing. It can
  speak Commn, aloud an mentally with it s owner, Talen. This knife
  has the ability to detect doors within a 10 foot radius, secret,
  magical, or regular, Sharpe cannot detect doors if the large ruby on
  his hilt is covered.
  The second knife, Sting, can speak Common and Dwarven. Sting will
  always have a craving for blood and will carry on conversations with
  talen for days about the last kill they got. To make him, Sting, remain
  silent Talen must cover he emerald in his hilt with a leather strap
  attacked to the sheath. Sting can detect magic within a 10 foot
  radius. It can also detect beings within a 3O foot radius, quite useful
  when camping by yourself, although he can do neither when his
  emerald is covered.




  More Rumors; & News


   Adventurers go Hunting Trolls - On
  Purpose!

  FR:EVENINGSTAR: Two foolhardy
  adventurers thought it would be "fun" to
  go hunting trolls, so off they went into
  the southern part of the Stonelands a
  few days east of Eveningstar. They
  apparently spend two days trying to
  attract a troll, they were very
  successful, for three fully grown trolls
  attacked out of the bush. The elf, whose
  idea it was, was rendered unconscious in
  the attack. His dwarven companion
  managed to fell the trolls and burn
  their bodies.

  After healing his companion with healing
  draughts, the furious dwarf dragged his
  embarrassed colleague back to
  Eveningstar where they were heard to be
  solemnly swearing to never do that
  again.

  FR:Baldour: The Dwarves of Baldour
  report that one of the Swords of Baldour
  has been stolen. Emissaries have been
  sent to investigate its sighting in
  Waterdeep.

  FR:Eveningstar: An ancient axe, the
  dwarven Axe of Thrammer, has been
  rumoured to appeared in Eveningstar and
  also in Waterdeep. This huge axe that
  hits like a 2-handed sword, was being
  made about 700 years ago for the Dwarven
  prince Thrammer, but he and the axe
  disappeared during the 17th Dwarf/Orc
  war. The axe is not magical but was
  intended to be enchanted, but was put
  into use when the Orcs attacked.


  FR:Waterdeep: . There,as been a flood of
  Maztican gold and silver on the market
  in Waterdeep recently as adventurers
  return from the jungles of the Dead Zone.

  FR:?: The Church of Helm denies reports
  that a Helm missionary tried to raise an
  arlny of Maztican warriors.

   FR:Waterdeep: The recent
  restrictions on magic weaponry in
  Waterdeep appears to have created a
  thriving black market in evil-
  babykilling-assault-swords. Loyal
  citizens are requested to report any
  knowledge of magic weapons to the
  authorities.

   FR: Sea of Fallen Stars (Pirate Isles)
  After the death of the Half-Orcish
  leader and its Green Dragon protector at
  the hands of an adventuring party, the
  pirate town of Scrape has fallen into a
  state of chaos and confusion as various
  factions struggle to claim leadership.
  No less than four factions comprised of
  Humans, Ogres, Orcs, and Goblins are at
  war with each other on the small Pirate
  Isle.

  FR: Mirabar The adventurers known as the
  Bloodhawks have returned in triumph to
  Mirabar aboard a flying ship. The
  vessal's holds were filled to the rim
  with platinum,gold, and silver obtained
  from the lair of a Red Dragon. At the
  request of the party's leader, Deltar
  the Destroyer, a drydock was built and
  the vessal landed outside of the city.
  After seeing to the ressurection of one
  of thier number who had fallen to the
  Dragon's breath, and removing the 'helm'
  that allowed the ship to fly, the
  Bloodhawks donated the wooden galley to
  the city and rode to the south.

  FR: Scardale A sea-going vessal
  belonging to the Zhentarim was attacked
  and stolen by unknown parties in a
  fierce battle on Scardale's wharves. At
  the end of the melee, several Zhentilar
  were dead, including a mage and a priest
  of Cyric, and the vessal was sailing
  away to the north. The Black Network is
  rumored to be actively seeking the
  culprits, and have offered a 1,000 gold
  piece reward for information leading to
  the bloody and painful death of those
  responsible.

  FR:Moonshaes(outer planes): A well known
  group of adventurers have traveled to
  the plane of hades to reclaim the now
  lost soul of Tristan Kendrik. They have
  enlisted the help of the Mage Flamsterd,
  and another unknown sage called Gregor.
  Gregor seems to hold vast knowledge of
  the outer planes, and of the resident
  powers. All that is known is that he was
  first seen in Waterdeep soon after the
  death of Myrkul in the Time of the
  Avatars. The group has returned empty
  handed with two of their number dead,
  thought to be now restored. They now
  plan on returning to Hades with new
  information to where their King's soul
  lies.


  FR:RAVENS BLUFF: Some adventurers from
  the Company of the White Raven
  accidently visited Maztica recently when
  the ship they were travelling on was
  swallowed by a giant sea monster. When
  the elven mage Kitiram cast a Flaming
  Sphere against the monster's stomach
  lining, a survival mechanism teleported
  the ship randomly, causing it to appear
  above a desert. Gravity took over, and
  the ship smashed into the surface,
  killing most of the crew and severely
  injuring the adventuring
  group.Fortunately, the survivors were
  discovered by some friendly natives, and
  after establishing rudimentary
  communications, they discovered they
  were in Maztica. The group set out to
  discover a way to travel back to Ravens
  Bluff. After a series of adventures, the
  group found a spelljamming helm. This
  helm was mounted on a ship, and the
  group left Maztica, taking some willing
  natives with them. The return to Ravens
  Bluff caused some consternation, as the
  pilot failed to handle the helm
  properly, crashing the ship into a
  house, destroying the ship and house in
  the process. No loss of life occurred
  and damages were paid for by the
  Company.


  Forgotten Realms:Cormyr: CARAVANS
  AMBUSHED!

  In the past two rides, a total of
  four caravans have been ambushed and
  plundered while making the run through
  Gnoll Pass. The only survivor tells of a
  pitched battle between the caravan's
  guards and a large combined force of
  orcs, hobgoblins, gnolls, and ogres.
  Baron Thomdor, commander of Castle Crag,
  suspects Zhentarim influence, because as
  everyone knows, humanoids can't
  cooperate on making dinner, let alone
  coordinating a military operation of
  this magnitude. Various adventuring
  bands have been hired to find the
  humanoids and destroy the operation. A
  fake caravan manned by Purple Dragon's
  will also attempt to draw out the
  humanoids and expose their leaders.


  Forgotten Realms: Baldur~s Gate: Unicorn
  Controversy

  Tran, a noted alchemist in Baldur's
  Gate, has put out advertisements for
  unicorn horns. Despite massive protests
  by noted druids and rangers,a large
  party brought in two horns and was paid
  hansomely, in cash and gems. The Moon
  Blades, a group of nearby Druids,
  contacted Tran with the intent of having
  him revoke the advertisement. Two druids
  went to have a "talk" with him and have
  not been seen from since.



  Wishes
  > Wish:  My guideline has always been:  A 7th level limited wish can
  > duplicate the effects of any 5th level Mage or Priest spell.  A
  > 9th level wish can duplicate the effects of any 7th level mage or
  > Priest spell.  Other effects would also have to be within this
  > 'power' range.  When using the wish in this manner there is not
  > chance for loss of con.
  > This is extremely limiting the power of a wish, why even have a
  > wish spell if all its going to do is duplicate some spell two levels
  > lower?


  To NOT limit the power of a wish spell in this manner could be very
  unfair considering the spells level.  A Wish should be just another
  9th level spell... (7th in the case of limited wish), not some all
  powerful ultimate spell.   Example: Limited Wish - Look at ALL the
  options that a character has if he/she could cast ANY 5th level spell!
  And I didn't say that it can ONLY duplicate the effects of a spell...
  "Other effects should be in this 'power' range"   I often ask myself
  this question:  If I wanted to make a spell that duplicates the
  'effect' asked for in the wish, what level would the spell be?

  If, for example, you allow a 9th level wish to 'duplicate' the effects
  of other 9th level spells, why would anyone with access to a wish spell
  take any other spell?   Casting time?

  And I recommend that this limit be placed on the spell 'Wish'.  A
  wish granted by a magic item or divine being could be more powerful,
  and should be, esp. if you use 10th and higher level spells.  While
  I do not allow these spells, a 'Greater Wish' could be created to
  handle more powerful needs.

  The limits I suggested were originally outlined in a T$R publication.
  In an effort to drive this thread into the ground, I will now provide
  ANOTHER large Dragon article. While it was written long before 2nd
  edition existed, most of Gary Snyder's theories still apply.


  From Dragon #49 May 1981
  BEST WISHES!  Guidelines for getting & giving
  by Gary Snyder
  re-printed without permission for educational purposes only

   The Wish and Limited Wish spells are an important part of the
  ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS game, and sooner or later every
  player and Dungeon Master will be confronted with the question of
  how to make a Wish or how to fulfill one.

   The Players Hand book describes these spells in the vaguest of
  terms - a necessary condition, because any attempt to define the
  wish concept naturally involves limiting the scope and power of
  the Wish to the characteristics described by the definition.

   It is up to individual DMs and players to define and interpret
  the Wish and Limited Wish in such a way that the use of those
  spells in a campaign does not have an unfair or inappropriate
  effect on play.  The ten General Principles of Wishes, presented
  and explained in the text which follows, represent one possible
  way of establishing "ground rules" for the use of Wish spells
  which can be used to the benefit of DM and players alike.

   The General Principles below do not narrow the power and scope
  of a Wish to the point where a DM can quote a General Principle
  as a self-explanatory result of a Wish.  The intent of the
  Principles is to encompass broad concepts which are relatively
  easy to apply in any specific case which might arise.  The
  stricture set down by a certain Principle may help to determine
  whether a Wish has any effect at all in a certain situation, or,
  if it is effective, what degree of success is attained by the
  wisher in achieving the desired end by the desired means.
  Usually, a Principle will be no help at all in determining
  exactly how a Wish ought to be worded or exactly how it ought to
  be fulfilled.

   The Principles are meant to apply to Wish and Limited Wish
  spells, wishes acquired from rings, scrolls, swords, relics and
  artifacts, and wishes obtained from efreet and noble djinn.  They
  do not (necessarily) pertain to "wishes" granted by devils,
  demons or gods, which are actually forms of Divine (or demoniac
  or diabolic) Intervention.


   Wishes vs. Divine Intervention

   A Wish or Limited Wish is simply a magic spell of a specific
  level which can be used as a general-purpose method to achieve
  some desired result.  Any Wish is limited in power and bound by
  the laws of the universe in which it is employed.

   By contrast, Divine Intervention is an action of a deity or god,
  just as diabolic and demoniac interventions are actions of devils
  and demons respectively.  While these three types of beings are
  also bound by laws which govern their environments, their power
  in their own realms and in those realms not specially designated
  as belonging to another similar being is nearly unlimited.  An
  act of intervention can actually change that which has already
  occurred, or can directly and definitively alter the course of
  future events - things which a Wish cannot accomplish.

   The General Principles of Wishes are not designed to apply to
  intervention by a deity, demon or devil.  The granting of favors
  by such beings cannot be governed by any general rules, since
  each instance of intervention may produce drastically different
  results depending upon the preference or the inclination of the
  deity at that certain time.

  THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF WISHES

   (I) WISHES ARE 9TH-LEVEL MAGIC SPELLS AND ARE LIMITED IN POWER
  ACCORDINGLY; LIMITED WISHES ARE 7TH-LEVEL SPELLS WHICH ARE EVEN
  MORE LIMITED.

   There is no such thing in the AD&D rules as a 10th-level spell,
  or any form of magical energy which is more potent than a
  9th-level spell.  If a Wish was unlimited in power, it would be
  theoretically possible for it to have the energy of a 10th-level
  spell - but then the Wish spell itself would have to be
  considered a 10th-level spell, and that is a contradiction.
  Using the same reasoning, a Limited Wish is limited in scope and
  power to what can be accomplished with the energy of a 7th-level
  spell.  In addition to these general limitations, there are
  specific instances cited in the AD&D rules where the use of a
  Wish is impossible or ineffective.

  [Nathan Amed Comments:  While this has changed for SOME people,
   the theory applys, as the spell still 9th level]


   (II) WISHES CANNOT CHANGE WHAT HAS ALREADY HAPPENED, BUT THEY
  CAN BE USED TO ALTER OR NEGATE THE RESULT OF SOME PRIOR
  HAPPENING.

   If, for example, someone has been disintegrated, nothing short
  of divine intervention can change that fact: he has been
  disintegrated.  The result of this occurrence, however, can be
  nullified by a Wish which causes the body of the victim to be
  reintegrated (see Principle VIII).

   (III) WISHES CANNOT DIRECTLY AFFECT THAT WHICH WILL HAPPEN,
  EXCEPT IN THE SENSE THAT EVERYTHING THAT WILL HAPPEN IS A DIRECT
  RESULT OF WHAT IS AND HAS BEEN HAPPENING.

   A Wish has no real power to affect anything except at the
  precise moment it is uttered (see Principle II).  Therefore, a
  Wish for a specific occurrence or situation to come about in the
  future - but not at the time the Wish is actually made - would
  have the effect of placing the wisher in circumstances at the
  present time that would most possibly bring about the desired end
  after the passage of the intervening time, but would not and
  could not constitute a guarantee that the desired event will
  happen.

   (IV) WISHES ARE BOUND BY THE LAWS UNDER WHICH THEY THEMSELVES
  ARE BROUGHT ABOUT AND USED.

   In most AD&D universes, this will mean that a Wish cannot make
  something out of nothing or vice versa.  For the creation of
  food, water, soft goods and other such items, raw materials
  (carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen) are usually available in
  abundance.  However, the creation of a certain amount of iron,
  copper, gold, platinum, or other valuable materials is much more
  difficult because of the relative scarcity of such items.  In any
  event, the creation of a quantity of material which is greater in
  mass than the spellcaster or wisher will be considered much more
  complex and energy-draining than the alternative of teleporting
  the wisher to the desired substance or vice versa (see Principle
  VI).  For purposes of this determination, all magical items and
  all living beings (with the exception of the character using the
  Wish) are considered to be of infinite mass; that is, the
  creation of such items by a Wish is essentially impossible, since
  the energy of a Wish is not also infinite.


   (V) WISHES HAVE NO AUTHORITY AND NO POWER OVER THE ABSTRACT,
  THE INSUBSTANTIAL, OR THE NONCONCRETE.

   In particular, a Wish cannot grant ownership, titles, or other
  stations which require an authority to confer them upon someone
  else.  Nor can they remove such titles and privileges, either

Due to its size, this text item will be continued in the next text item.

------------------------------ Start of body part 3

  from the wisher or others.  If a Wish deals wholly or primarily
  with abstract, intangible considerations, there can be no
  certainty that the Wish will achieve the desired end; at best,
  the Wish will put the wisher into circumstances which have the
  greatest possibility of achieving that end (see Principle III).

   (VI) WISHES WILL ALWAYS ACT IN THE SIMPLEST MANNER POSSIBLE
  WHILE ABIDING BY THE WORDING OF THE WISH ITSELF.

   If a desired end may be accomplished with a lower-level spell
  than the wisher had in mind, for instance, and the means to
  achieve that end was not fully specified in the Wish, then the
  lower-level spell will be used.  In general, the more mass or
  energy involved in the fulfillment of a Wish, the more complex
  the undertaking will be.  "Creation" (see Principle IV) of a
  substance or material is more difficult than molecular
  rearrangement which might accomplish the same purpose.  Molecular
  rearrangement is more difficult than destruction, destruction is
  more difficult than the teleportation of something, and
  teleportation is more difficult than simple enlightenment or
  knowledge given to the wisher.

   (VII) WISHES ARE GENERAL-PURPOSE SPELLS, AND AS SUCH MAY BE
  USED VOLUNTARILY IN A NUMBER OF WAYS, WITH VARYING CHANCES
  FOR SUCCESS.

   To employ this principle properly, it is necessary to determine
  at what level of power the magic operates to cause the
  fulfillment of a particular wish.  If the method involves the
  magic of a known spell, the level of the magic is easily
  determined from the rules; new spells or other types of magic
  will have to be compared to existing spells and magic by the DM
  before determining the level of magic involved.  Chances for
  success (complete fulfillment of the wish) depend upon the type
  of wish (magic-ustr or clerical) and the level of magic involved,
  according to the following chart:

   Spell    Full Wish    Limited Wish
   Level    M-U Cleric   M-U Cleric
   1-4      100% 100%    100% 100%
    5       100% 100%    100%  75%
    6       100%  90%     80%  50%
    7       100%  75%     50%  --
    8        90%  --      --   --
    9        75%  --      --   --


   Often, but not always, when a spell level lower than the wish
  itself is used to achieve the desired end, the manifestation of
  the magic will be similar to the spell in question but in an
  improved form (for instance, teleportation with no chance for
  error) because of the extra power of the wish spell itself above
  and beyond the energy needed to make the wish come true.  Spells
  which are "improved" in this manner are generally those of levels
  where the chance for success is 100%.

  (VIII) WISHES RARELY WILL ACHIEVE MORE THAN ONE END, AND
  NEVER MORE THAN TWO.

   All spells are formulated to achieve a specific purpose, whether
  it be to neutralize poison in some creature, charm a hostile
  group of opponents, or restore life in an individual.  It is not
  beyond the power of a wish to reintegrate a character and even
  restore life to his body (constitution check applicable); even
  though those are two distinctly separate acts, they both
  contribute to the fulfillment of a specific purpose. ln contrast,
  it would not be possible for a single wish to teleport a group of
  characters out of the middle of a melee to a place of safety,
  accompanied by all the opponents' treasure (which, at the time
  of the wish, is still in the possession of the opponents).

   In any case except the most simply worded wishes, the DM will
  have to weigh the wish in terms of how many ends it is designed
  to achieve.  For example, how many dead characters can a wish
  bring back to life all at once? The answer varies: If the deaths
  were all due to a single incident such as a cave-in, or if they
  all occurred within the same short period of time during melee, a
  wish would probably be permitted to save all the victims, since
  only the effect of one short span of time is being altered, and
  in that respect only one end is being achieved.  On the other
  hand, if half of a group of characters died in a cave-in and the
  other half in a run-in with an umber hulk, only one group of
  victims would be able to be brought back to life with a single
  wish - altering one occurrence, not two, and achieving only one
  end instead of two distinctly different purposes.

   (IX) WISHES WILL FULFILL, TO THE LIMITS OF THEIR POWER, NOT
  ONLY THE DESIRED END BUT THE MEANS BY WHICH THAT END IS
  BROUGHT ABOUT.

   The wording of this Principle implies that a Wish spell has
  reasoning power of its own which enables it to make a "choice"
  between various methods of achieving a desired end, and perhaps
  even distort or depart from the wording of the wish.  This is NOT
  so!

   A good example of the improper distortion of a Wish is the
  character who wishes for a demon to serve him as a slave - and
  gets sent to the Abyss to pick one out.  Some DMs consider this a
  fair interpretation, claiming that it does not violate the
  wording of the wish.  While this may be technically true
  (depending upon the actual wording), such action is in violation
  of the nature of a Wish.

   It has been pointed out in earlier Principles that a Wish may be
  fulfilled in one of several different ways.  In all cases, the
  Wish will be fulfilled in such a way that the end result is
  achieved as desired, and in the manner which it could reasonably
  be expected to be achieved.  One of the biggest advantages of a
  Wish is its flexibiity, but this is only an advantage as long as
  the DM and the players all use common sense and fairness in the
  wording and fulfillment of a desire.

   (X) WISHES ARE IMPARTIAL, OBJECTIVE AND CONSISTENT.

   If a Wish works in a certain way in a certain situation, it
  should always work in the same manner in identical situations in
  the future - as long as the set of circumstances directly
  involved in the Wish is the same.

   Sometimes it may be a matter of interpretation whether the
  conditions for a Wish are identical to the conditions that
  existed at a previous time when an earlier Wish was used.  In any
  event, if the general conditions are the same and the Wish is
  worded identically to or generally the same as a previous Wish,
  the means of achieving an end and that end itself must be
  generally the same as they were for the first Wish.

   If a DM is properly consistent in this fashion, it may become
  possible for players to "predict" the effects or the outcome of
  making a certain Wish at a certain time.  Players should be
  permitted to have this knowledge and to be able to trust in it
  once they have figured out this "law of nature." Players should
  also be aware that the nature of a Wish makes it impossible to
  predict any outcome with certainty.  The word "consistency" in
  the Principle stated above applies more to the approach and the
  motives of the DM (who grants the wish) than it does to the
  actual result of the Wish.


   In no case should the DM's personal feelings for a player or a
  character have any influence on whether a Wish is granted or how
  It is put into effect.  Petty emotions are neither impartial,
  objective nor consistent, and have no place in the implementation
  of a Wish or in any other aspect of an AD&D adventure.




  From: Douglas Jahnke <CHAOTIC%KSUVM.BITNET@pucc.Princeton.EDU
  Subject: ADND-L: The Final Say: Wishes...all ya need to know....

  Notes on casting WISHES: Source: Role Aids, Lich Lords, pg 4.

  The wish is the most powerful magic.  Used to its fullest extent it
  can be deadly and devastating.  When used ith imagination and care,
  however, it can provide some very interesting effects on a party,
  both in opposition and benefit.

  Here are some guidelines:

  1.) The wish is a 9th level spell, and its magics are restricted to
      power capable of being produced by other 9th level spells.

  2.) An extremely powerful Wish will cause the spell caster to become
      exhausted and immediately fall asleep for four hours.

  Notes on: Examples of::

   'I wish that (a particular character) was dead.'
     (result: the wishing character is teleported into the future at
       the point in time where that character is dead.)  Which means,
       the wishing character is 'out of the game' as well.


   Wishing items to be non-existant, or wishing invulnerability to
   all attacks.

    (Results: Item gets a save or be destroyed (which could cause
      an explosion or worse, such as a rift in the space-time fabric of
      reality. Result 2: Timestop, while slumber, etc.)

  The following wishes can be used.  Possible side effects are in
   Parentheses.

  1: I wish that _______ could no longer wield a weapon.
       (Would last 1d4 turns)

  2: I wish that _______ could no longer move.
       (The area containing ______ would be under a time-stop spell
        for 1d8+9 rounds)

  3: I wish that ______ were totally naked.
       (The person would be stripped, standing in the raw, with items
        scattered around them.)

  4: I wish that the next time I was mortally wounded, I would be
     fully healed.

  5: I wish that my next enemy would fail their next resistance check.
      (Saving through, an automatic 1)

  6: I wish that I were in the previous round.
       (limited time traved, max 1 or 2 rounds only)

  7: I wish that my spells caused maximum damage today.
       (Saves are still given, but based off full damage base.)

  8: I wish the next spell which effects me does minimum damage.

  9: I wish I made my next resistance check.

  10: I wish my next stike against my foe would hit them for
      max. damage.
      (good way to breech defenses and such, but only good for
       on hit.)




  Final notes:

  There are an infinite amount of 'good' wishes that can be used
  rather than a simple 'death wish'.

  One thing that is imperative for a DM refereeing a very high skill
  level game is restraint.  This isn't to say that you should hold
  back on your monster's attacks, or characters for that matter. It
  simply means, that your players are around for one reason only, an
  that is fun.  Make sure, for all involved, that it is just that.

  Remember: always restrict Wishes to the minimum amount of power
   needed for the effect to transpire.

  Past examples: 'I wish for the strength of a titan.'

  Result: a titan is summoned to the caster, who will be kind enough
  to lift something for them.

  MEtA: original wish actually was, 'I wish for a ring of titan strength.'

  Result: the ring now has a strength of a titan.  Doesn't mean
   the character gains the benefit.  Or, perhaps, better yet,
   it has charges or a duration per day.

  Nathan Amed
  NAmed@Viking.NavAir.Navy.Mil



                          WISH POWER LIST
             (Copyright 1992 Ryk Erik Spoor [Sea Wasp])

          This is the list of Wishes and their attendant power levels.
  For the most part, there is not a HUGE difference between Wishes that
  are next to each other; i.e., a Wish 2 is not all that different from
  a Wish 1, and a Wish 19 is just about as good as a Wish 20. The
  "Granted Power" listings are examples of things that would basically
  be automatically granted to the Wisher unless he just HORRIBLY botched
  the Wish; i.e., things WELL within the power of that Wish. Well worded
  Wishes can reach into the NEXT power level, and superlative wording
  and good luck might even allow one to reach TWO levels higher.
          The "AD&D equivalent" column denotes what spell in that game
  system is considered the same as that Wish Level for most purposes;
  this assumes that a more powerful caster can get more Bang for the
  Buck (that is, a Wish spell by a 45th level mage can kick butt on
  a Wish by an 18th level). These are written as "Spell name(caster
  level), as in Wish(24th).

      Wish Level      AD&D Equivalent             Granted Power

  Wish 1          Limited Wish(14th),     Healing, increased hit chances,
                  Alter Reality(14th)     increased spell durations, ranges
                                          minor information

  Wish 2          LW(17th), AR(17th)          As above, but more potent

  Wish 3          LW(20), AR(20th)                Ditto

  Wish 4          Wish(18th), AR(24th)    Resurrection of the recently dead;
                                          transportation to desired location;
                                          moderate material gains; transporting
                                          desired (unprotected) people/objects
                                          to caster; create one-use, not
                                          permanent effect, magic (potions,
                                          scrolls); summon low-level multiuse
                                          or permanent magic if not protected.
                                          can raise one stat permanently by
                                          up to a point if not yet at racial
                                          maximum; if already at racial max,
                                          adds 10% of one point.


  Wish 5          Wish(23rd), AR(27th)    As above, slightly more powerful

  Wish 6          Wish(26th), AR(30th)            ditto

  Wish 7          Wish(28th), AR(33rd)    Ditto, but can now create minor
                                          permanent effect items (potion
                                          of longevity); monetary gains
                                          can be higher; can bypass very
                                          minor protective magic while
                                          getting more powerful items;
                                          create permanent ordinary objects
                                          on the order of a mansion
                                          (furnished in moderate expense).

  Wish 8          Wish(30th), AR(36th),   As above, again, more powerful; can
                  Djinn/efreet Wishes     permanize magical effects, even
                                          ones not supposed to be permanent,
                                          and there is no constitution loss
                                          for so doing; can raise any one stat
                                          one point even if beyond racial max,
                                          or a non-maxed stat by two, or any
                                          two non maxed by one. The dead
                                          can be raised even if dead for more
                                          than one year (but less than ten).

  Wish 9          Wish(32nd), AR(38th)    As above, more so

  Wish 10         Wish(34th), AR(40th)    Major monetary gains; Create
  permanent
                  POWERFUL Djinn/Efreet,  items of low to moderate power (+1
                  Major Demon/Devils,     swords, mithril blades, Ring of
  Faerie)
                  minor gods              make permanent protections of
  different
                                          sort than spells make easy, create
                                          ordinary items on the order of a
  small
                                          village (complete with fields, wells,
                                          roads, etc.); create intelligence
                                          within an item (starts at int=9).

  Wish 11         Wish(35th), AR(42nd)    As above, more...

  Wish 12         Wish(36th), AR(44th)    ditto

  Wish 13         Wish(37th), AR(45th)    Money? Sure mac. You got it. Create
                                          magical items of +2 or so; summon
                                          even fairly well protected items.
                                          create intelligent +1 item (powers
                                          are additional or random...);
                                          Create ordinary area equal to a
                                          larger town, or make a single
  dwelling
                                          that is dimensionally separate,
  etc...
                                          Create life of vegetable level or
                                          insects.

  Wish 14         Wish(38th), medium      As above...
                  gods


  Wish 15         Wish(39th)              Create +3 items. Summon virtually
                                          anything no matter how it's
                                          protected. Create major cities or
                                          a small dimensionally separate
  village;
                                          Move a mountain. Get really
  disgusting
                                          amounts of cash (1,000,000 mithril);
                                          Create moderate items (Ring of Regen,
                                          Ring of Protection +2); create life
                                          at fish, reptile level. Repair any
                                          damaged soul fully.

  Wish 16         Wish(43rd)              Create slightly more powerful items
                                          (Ring of Prot +3); create life on
                                          avian and mammal levels (not with
                                          intelligence, though); create an
                                          entire country the size of Rhode
                                          island, or move a small mountain
                                          range.

  Wish 17         Wish(45th), bigger      Create +4 items; Create +3 with
                  gods                    own intellect, +2 with intelligence
                                          and desired powers. Create
                                          intelligent life; Make a country
                                          dimensionally separate (Ravenloft,
                                          anyone?); travel anywhere in time
                                          or space unless prevented by greater
                                          power; make major magical items
                                          (Staff of the Magi). Create a country
                                          the size of Texas. Create souls.
                                          Raise dead no matter HOW long they've
                                          been gone.

  Wish 18         Wish(60th), Major Gods  Create +5 items; make multiple lesser
                                          items. Blow up a planet, move a
                                          continent, create a continent.

  Wish 19         Wish(100th), Gods who   Create "ordinary" artifacts; create
                  are a notch below the   planets. Make countries already with
                  Creator.                populations. Make intelligent species
                                          that never existed before, with all
                                          special abilities thereunto
                                          pertaining; destroy or create stellar
                                          systems.

  Wish 20         Direct Divine power,    Just about ANYTHING you want.
                  from deities who are
                  either Creator level
                  or DAMN close; if the
                  Deity in question can't
                  bench-press galaxies,
                  he can't DO a Wish 20.

  Highmoon ;Scenerio


  [The following text is an account of a party playing near Highmoon.  The

Due to its size, this text item will be continued in the next text item.

------------------------------ Start of body part 4

  scenerio is good.  The DM of this adventure has left his Internet Address so
  you can contact him for the module.]

  The party, at this point split down to four characters (From the maximum of
  thirteen players - I know, it WAS mayhem) due to desertion, murder, and
  gentle weeding out of troublesome players. They sprawled into the Rising
  Moon (a famous FR inn) tired, hungry and wounded. While sitting at a table
  with even the Bard listening to the musicians a tortured, screaming wail
  speared through the night. A sound of supernatural anguish. The Inn
  emptied, the shutters were closed, and the chairs turned up. The players were

  either asked to leave or pay for the night now. They stayed.

  In the morning they managed to discover that the wail came from Lilly.
  Lilly was a banshee who inhabited a ravine in the Elven Court; (a huge
  forest) about five miles north of the inn. They were immediately warned not
  to try anything, merely entering the ravine was grounds for prosecution from
  the Highlord and usually meant a stiff fine and permenant bansishment form
  the Dale. The players chose to push after a few tid bits. (i.e. the bard
  discoverd an unfinished song about Lilaeth (Lilly), the fighters heard of
  treasure, the magic-user disocverd she was a rather powerful Enchantress.)
  The story they eventually discovered was this:

  Lilaeth (lil-AY-eth) was a fair elven Enchantress back in the days of the
  height
  of Myth Drannor (a long long time ago) She left the fabled city for the more
  secluded southern woods. There she found a secluded glade in a small ravine
  near a small pond covered in Lillies, complete with cascading water fall. She

  took the name of the flower, Lilaeth, as a symbol of her new life and built
  her
  tower. Within the waterfall and pond lived a nymph. Lilaeth was washing her
  golden hair in the falls when she first came upon the nymph. They became the
  best of friends and would spend their days picking flowers and their nights
  counting stars. (Lilaeth was in no rush to study, she was already an Arch-
  Mage, and had pretty much created enough magic at this point to mke her life
  VERY comfortable.) One afternoon, Lilaeth was in the forest speaking with a
  small group of sprites, about the rights to the honey found in a certain area
  of
  the woods, when

  they all heard a low singing.  The sprites immediately vanished. Lilaeth
  waited, and into the clearing stepped, a creature unlike any other she had
  ever seen. He stood as tall as an elf, but was far heavier. His face was
  covered with hair, and the hair on the back of his head was no longer than
  the
  hair on the front. His ears had no peak, and his voice was low, lower than
  any elf she could remember singing. It was sort of enchanting. His eyes
  widened with surprise when he saw her, but he did not change his tune. It
  was in a language she was forced to study years ago in school.

  She could barely make it out, it was the language of man. This was a human,
  and she was delighted. She sat motionless, so not to scare him off, but he
  went as he came. Straight through the clearing, singing all the while. He
  cdme back every once in a while.
  Soon they were speaking, and the nymph was jealous and frightened of this
  intruder. She warned the elf that nothing good ever came of humans, but she
  knew it was-,too late. This elf had learned to love. The nymph did not
  understand, and retre~ted to her home behind the waterfall. But the nymph
  did not forget, she spent her days watching them through a magic pool, and
  getting angrier and angrier.
  Lilaeth couldn't seem to care less. The human's name was Pond. He had been
  granted permission to travel these forests as a scout looking for a place to
  build a small human settlement. The two were in love and soon Lilaeth was
  with child. This fired the Nymph's rage even more. The final straw was the
  crafting of a magical blade. The nymph had begged Lilaeth to make for her a
  magical flower which she could keep in her geode (she lived in a large
  crystal
  geode) behind the waterfall which would not loose its scent. Lilaeth refused,

  on the grounds that she did not wish to waste her time locked in her "dreary"

  tower when she could be outside counting the stars. Now she sat day and
  night in that very room crafting a magical blade of glass for her human. No!
  this could not be allowed. The nymph waited and planned her vengance.
  On the night of the birth of their child the nymph cursed them both.
  Lilaeth was to see all her work and beauty destroyed, and the human was to
  be hers. Pond was transformed into a creature and entered the lake, while the

  spirit of teh elf fled into the root of the mightiest water lilly in the
  pond,and
  her specter rowmed as a banshee. No one knows what became of the child.


  The sitaution now...
  The nymph is still there, the only one who has seen her in over 600 years is
  the aged now-blind priest of Eldath who tends this end of the lake (the
  other's
  is Lilly's) and waits for the Nymph to return to him. He is a kindly man who
  knows much about the legend, the Highlord has charged him with keeping
  anyone from entering the ravine, and has provided him with the magic to do
  so. He will not kill unless necessary. The nymph is still alive, but she has
  become reclusive and weary. Her lands have been taken over by the humans,
  and her only friend has been destroyed. The lake is inhabited by a water
  wierd
  which attacks any and all doing anything more than drinking from its edge.
  The Banshee of Highmoon spends its years gathering its strength, when it
  finally has enough it seems to send out its energy and draws to by means of a

  powerful charm, a virgin human maiden o join to its group of brides maids -
  wights.
  Twenety years ago, a band of adventurers (the last to do so) entered the
  ravine to destroy the banshee. Only two of the young men returned. They
  would relate to know one what they saw or heard. The emerging thief left the
  area, and died some winter past in the north. A now elderly fighter however,
  still lives in the dale, and frequents the Rising Moon. He will be hostile to
  any
  adventuring parties showing any interest in the banshee, and will
  immediately report them to the authorities. The banshee gianed so much
  power from the destruction of this party that more than a dozen maidens
  were claimed from the surrounding territory, the following night. Thus the
  new Highlord of the Dale passed the law. It has been unbroken since.


  On the same night as the party's rest at the inn, they will be visited by the

  nymph (unknown to them) beseeching them to seek an end to the madness.
  She will provide clues to where they can find the information to destroy the
  banshee and release her (nad the nymph and the water wierd) from her
  torment. The party then must gather the information and present the case to
  the Highlord, in order to convice him to allow them to enter the ravine and
  battle the banshee. The true means of doing this which will be revealed to
  the
  players eventually (if they don't figure it out) is to cut the stalk of the
  lilly pad
  (the one that never goes out of bloom, the one that the water wierd will
  protect) with the glass sword. The Banshee can be harmed in no other way.
  Not an easy task, considering the wights and other undead to be encountered.
  My players seemed to enjoy this adventure, and I can easily adapt it to the
  Ravenloft setting. As you can guess there is alot more to the adventure than
  I
  have included here, but I don't want to create an unreadable file.

  If there enough interested parties, I can adapt the stuff I have, and mail it
  out
  - real mail not e-mail (so as t include maps - and get a response. I'm
  probably
  leaving any and all networks in April) So I might have to ask for postage and

  photo-copy money.
  From brian_vickers@isd.Jpl.Nasa.Gov





  INDEX

  Alustriel 3
  Blackstaff 3
  Bolt 8
  Clout Fang 9
  Crown of Horns 3
  Dove 3
  Elven Court 34
  FLAMEDANCER 7
  FROSTWEAVER 5
  Glove of Frost 6
  Highmoon 34
  Impact 9
  Khelben 3
  Laeral 3, 4
  Magic Items 5
  News 17
  Non-Player Characters 10
  Rod of Lightning 8
  Rumors 17
  Silver's Black Armor 9
  Simlacrum 3
  Simulacrum 4
  StormBringer 9
  Stronghold of the Nine. 2
  Talen the Thief 13
  Talon 9
  The Company of Shadows 10
  WISH POWER LIST 31
  Wishes 19
  Zhentarim 1
  End of Notebook #3

------------------------------ End of body part 4


